SOLID MECHANICS

James R. Rice
School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA

Original version: October 1994
This revision: February 2010
Downloadable at: http://esag.harvard.edu/rice/e0_Solid_Mechanics_94_10.pdf
TABLE OF CONTENTS provided on last three pages, pp. 87-89

INTRODUCTION
The application of the principles of mechanics to bulk matter is conventionally divided into
the mechanics of fluids and the mechanics of solids. The entire subject is often called continuum
mechanics, particularly when we adopt the useful model of matter as being continuously
divisible, making no reference to its discrete structure at microscopic length scales well below
those of the application or phenomenon of interest. Solid mechanics is concerned with the
stressing, deformation and failure of solid materials and structures. What, then, is a solid? Any
material, fluid or solid, can support normal forces. These are forces directed perpendicular, or
normal, to a material plane across which they act. The force per unit of area of that plane is
called the normal stress. Water at the base of a pond, air in an automobile tire, the stones of a
Roman arch, rocks at base of a mountain, the skin of a pressurized airplane cabin, a stretched
rubber band and the bones of a runner all support force in that way (some only when the force is
compressive). We call a material solid rather than fluid if it can also support a substantial
shearing force over the time scale of some natural process or technological application of
interest. Shearing forces are directed parallel, rather than perpendicular, to the material surface
on which they act; the force per unit of area is called shear stress. For example, consider a
1

vertical metal rod that is fixed to a support at its upper end and has a weight attached at its lower
end. If we consider a horizontal surface through the material of the rod, it will be evident that
the rod supports normal stress. But it also supports shear stress, and that becomes evident when
we consider the forces carried across a plane through the rod that is neither horizontal nor
vertical. Thus, while water and air provide no long term support of shear stress, normally
granite, steel, and rubber do so, and are called solids. Materials with tightly bound atoms or
molecules, like the crystals formed below melting temperature by most substances or simple
compounds, or the amorphous structures formed in glass and many polymer substances at
sufficiently low temperature, are usually considered solids.
The distinction between solids and fluids is not precise and in many cases will depend on the
time scale. Consider the hot rocks of the Earth’s mantle. When a large earthquake occurs, an
associated deformation disturbance called a seismic wave propagates through the adjacent rock
and the whole earth is set into vibrations which, following a sufficiently large earthquake, may
remain detectable with precise instruments for several weeks. We would then describe the rocks
of the mantle as solid. So would we on the time scale of, say, tens to thousands of years, over
which stresses rebuild enough in the source region to cause one or a few repetitions of the
earthquake. But on a significantly longer time scale, say of order of a million years, the hot
rocks of the mantle are unable to support shearing stresses and flow as a fluid. Also, many
children will be familiar with a substance called silly putty, a polymerized silicone gel. If a ball
of it is left to sit on a table at room temperature, it flows and flattens on a time scale of a few
minutes to an hour. But if picked up and tossed as a ball against a wall, so that large forces act
only over the short time of the impact, it bounces back and retains its shape like a highly elastic
solid.
In the simple but very common case when such a material is loaded at sufficiently low
temperature and/or short time scale, and with sufficiently limited stress magnitude, its
deformation is fully recovered upon unloading. We then say that the material is elastic. But
substances can also deform permanently, so that not all deformation is recovered. For example,
if you bend a metal coat hanger substantially and then release the loading, it springs back only
partially towards its initial shape, but does not fully recover and remains bent. We say that the
metal of the coat hanger has been permanently deformed and in this case, for which the
permanent deformation is not so much a consequence of long time loading at sufficiently high
temperature, but more a consequence of subjecting the material to large stresses (above the yield
stress), we describe the permanent deformation as plastic deformation, and call the material
2

elastic-plastic. Permanent deformation of a sort that depends mainly on time of exposure to a
stress, and that tends to increase significantly with time of exposure, is called viscous or creep
deformation and materials which exhibit that, as well as tendencies for elastic response, are
called viscoelastic solids (or sometimes visco-plastic solids when we focus more on the
permanent strain than on the tendency for partial recovery of strain upon unloading).
Who uses solid mechanics? All those who seek to understand natural phenomena involving
the stressing, deformation, flow and fracture of solids, and all those who would have knowledge
of such phenomena to improve our living conditions and accomplish human objectives, have use
for solid mechanics. The latter activities are, of course, the domain of engineering and many
important modern sub fields of solid mechanics have been actively developed by engineering
scientists concerned, for example, with mechanical, structural, materials, civil or aerospace
engineering. Natural phenomena involving solid mechanics are studied in geology, seismology
and tectonophysics, in materials science and the physics of condensed matter, and in parts of
biology and physiology. Further, because solid mechanics poses challenging mathematical and
computational problems, it (as well as fluid mechanics) has long been an important topic for
applied mathematicians concerned, for example, with partial differential equations and with
numerical techniques for digital computer formulations of physical problems.
Here is a sampling of some of the issues addressed using solid mechanics concepts: How do
flows develop in the earth’s mantle and cause continents to move and ocean floors to slowly
subduct beneath them? How do mountains form? What processes take place along a fault
during an earthquake, and how do the resulting disturbances propagate through the earth as
seismic waves, and shake, and perhaps collapse, buildings and bridges? How do landslides
occur? How does a structure on a clay soil settle with time, and what is the maximum bearing
pressure which the footing of a building can exert on a soil or rock foundation without rupturing
it? What materials do we choose, and how do we proportion and shape them and control their
loading, to make safe, reliable, durable and economical structures, whether airframes, bridges,
ships, buildings, chairs, artificial heart valves, or computer chips, and to make machinery such as
jet engines, pumps, bicycles, and the like? How do vehicles (cars, planes, ships) respond by
vibration to the irregularity of surfaces or media along which they move, and how are vibrations
controlled for comfort, noise reduction and safety against fatigue failure? How rapidly does a
crack grow in a cyclically loaded structure, whether a bridge, engine, or airplane wing or
fuselage, and when will it propagate catastrophically? How do we control the deformability of
structures during impact so as to design crash worthiness into vehicles? How do we form the
3

materials and products of our technological civilization, e.g., by extruding metals or polymers
through dies, rolling material into sheets, punching out complex shapes, etc.? By what
microscopic processes do plastic and creep strains occur in polycrystals? How can we fashion
different materials together, like in fiber reinforced composites, to achieve combinations of
stiffness and strength needed in applications? What is the combination of material properties and
overall response needed in downhill skis or in a tennis racket? How does the human skull
respond to impact in an accident? How do heart muscles control the pumping of blood in the
human body, and what goes wrong when an aneurysm develops?

HISTORICAL SKETCH
Solid mechanics developed in the outpouring of mathematical and physical studies following
the great achievement of Isaac Newton (1642-1727) in stating the laws of motion, although it has
earlier roots. The need to understand and control the fracture of solids seems to have been a first
motivation. Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519) sketched in his notebooks a possible test of the
tensile strength of a wire. The Italian experimental scientist Galileo Galilei (1564-1642), who
died in the year of Newton’s birth, had investigated the breaking loads of rods in tension and
concluded that the load was independent of length and proportional to the cross section area, this
being a first step towards a concept of stress. He also investigated how the breaking of heavy
stone columns, laid horizontally in storage as beams, depended on the number and condition of
their supports.
Concepts of stress, strain and elasticity. The English scientist Robert Hooke discovered in
1660, but published only in 1678, the observation that for many materials that displacement
under a load was proportional to force, thus establishing the notion of (linear) elasticity but not
yet in a way that was expressible in terms of stress and strain. E. Mariotte in France published
similar discoveries in 1680 and, also, reached an understanding of how beams like those studied
by Galileo resisted transverse loadings or, more precisely, resist the torques caused by those
transverse loadings, by developing extensional and compressional deformations, respectively, in
material fibers along their upper and lower portions. It was for Swiss mathematician and
mechanician James Bernoulli (1654-1705) to observe, in the final paper of his life, in 1705, that
the proper way of describing deformation was to give force per unit area, or stress, as a function
of the elongation per unit length, or strain, of a material fiber under tension. Swiss
mathematician and mechanician Leonhard Euler (1707-1783), who was taught mathematics by
4

James’ brother John Bernoulli (1667-1748), proposed, among many contributions, a linear
relation between stress  and strain  in 1727, of form  = E  where the coefficient E is now
generally called Young’s modulus after English naturalist Thomas Young who developed a
related idea in 1807.
The notion that there is an internal tension acting across surfaces in a deformed solid was
expressed by German mathematician and physicist Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in 1684 and James
Bernoulli in 1691. Also, Bernoulli and Euler (see below) introduced the idea that at a given
section along the length of a beam there were internal tensions amounting to a net force and a net
torque. Euler introduced the idea of compressive normal stress as the pressure in a fluid in 1752.
The French engineer and physicist Charles-Augustine Coulomb (1736-1806) was apparently the
first to relate the theory of a beam as a bent elastic line to stress and strain in an actual beam, in a
way never quite achieved by Bernoulli and, although possibly recognized, never published by
Euler. He developed the famous expression  = M y / I for the stress due to the pure bending of
a homogeneous linear elastic beam; here M is the torque, or bending moment, y is the distance of
a point from an axis that passes through the section centroid, parallel to the torque axis, and I is
the integral of y2 over the section area. The French mathematician Parent introduced the concept
of shear stress in 1713, but Coulomb was the one who extensively developed the idea in
connection with beams and with the stressing and failure of soil in 1773, and studies of frictional
slip in 1779. It was the great French mathematician Augustin Louis Cauchy (1789-1857),
originally educated as an engineer, who in 1822 formalized the stress concept in the context of a
general three-dimensional theory, showed its properties as consisting of a 3 by 3 symmetric array
of numbers that transform as a tensor, derived the equations of motion for a continuum in terms
of the components of stress, and gave the specific development of the theory of linear elastic
response for isotropic solids. As part of this work, Cauchy also introduced the equations which
express the six components of strain, three extensional and three shear, in terms of derivatives of
displacements for the case when all those derivatives are much smaller than unity; similar
expressions had been given earlier by Euler in expressing rates of straining in terms of the
derivatives of the velocity field in a fluid.
Beams, columns, plates, shells. The 1700’s and early 1800’s were a productive period in
which the mechanics of simple elastic structural elements were developed well before the
beginnings in the 1820’s of the general three-dimensional theory. The development of beam
theory by Euler, who generally modeled beams as elastic lines which resist bending, and by
several members of the Bernoulli family and by Coulomb, remains among the most immediately
5

useful aspects of solid mechanics, in part for its simplicity and in part because of the
pervasiveness of beams and columns in structural technology. James Bernoulli proposed in his
final paper of 1705 that the curvature of a beam was proportional to bending moment. Euler in
1744 and John’s son, Daniel Bernoulli (1700-1782) in 1751 used the theory to address the
transverse vibrations of beams, and Euler gave in 1757 his famous analysis of the buckling of an
initially straight beam subjected to a compressive loading; the beam is then commonly called a
column. Following a suggestion of Daniel Bernoulli in 1742, Euler in 1744 introduced the strain
energy per unit length for a beam, proportional to the square of its curvature, and regarded the
total strain energy as the quantity analogous to the potential energy of a discrete mechanical
system. By adopting procedures that were becoming familiar in analytical mechanics, and
following from the principle of virtual work as introduced by John Bernoulli for discrete systems
such as pin-connected rigid bodies in 1717, Euler rendered the energy stationary and in this way
developed the calculus of variations as an approach to the equations of equilibrium and motion
of elastic structures.
That same variational approach played a major role in the development by French
mathematicians in the early 1800’s of a theory of small transverse displacements and vibrations
of elastic plates. This theory was developed in preliminary form by Sophie Germain and partly
improved upon by Simeon Denis Poisson in the early 1810’s; they considered a flat plate as an
elastic plane which resists curvature. Navier gave a definitive development of the correct energy
expression and governing differential equation a few years later. An uncertainty of some
duration in the theory arose from the fact that the final partial differential equation for the
transverse displacement is such that it is impossible to prescribe, simultaneously, along an
unsupported edge of the plate, both the twisting moment per unit length of middle surface and
the transverse shear force per unit length. This was finally resolved in 1850 by German physicist
Gustav Robert Kirchhoff in an application of virtual work and variational calculus procedures, in
the framework of simplifying kinematic assumptions that fibers initially perpendicular to the
plate middle surface remain so after deformation of that surface. As first steps in the theory of
thin shells, in the 1770’s Euler addressed the deformation of an initially curved beam, as an
elastic line, and provided a simplified analysis of vibration of an elastic bell as an array of
annular beams. John’s grandson, through a son and mathematician also named John, James
Bernoulli “the younger” (1759-1789) further developed this model in the last year of his life as a
two dimensional network of elastic lines, but could not develop an acceptable treatment. Shell
theory was not to attract attention for a century after Euler’s work, as the outcome of many
researches following the first consideration of shells from a three-dimensional elastic viewpoint
6

by H. Aron in 1873. Acceptable thin-shell theories for general situations, appropriate for cases
of small deformation, were developed by English mathematician, mechanician and geophysicist
A. E. H. Love in 1888 and mathematician and physicist Horace Lamb in 1890 (there is no
uniquely correct theory as the Dutch applied mechanician and engineer W. T. Koiter and Russian
mechanician V. V. Novozhilov were to clarify in the 1950’s; the difference between predictions
of acceptable theories is small when the ratio of shell thickness to a typical length scale is small).
Shell theory remained of immense interest well beyond the mid-1900’s in part because so many
problems lay beyond the linear theory (rather small transverse displacements often dramatically
alter the way that a shell supports load by a combination of bending and membrane action), and
in part because of the interest in such light-weight structural forms for aeronautical technology.
Elasticity, general theory. Linear elasticity as a general three-dimensional theory was in
hand in the early 1820’s based on Cauchy’s work. Simultaneously, Navier had developed an
elasticity theory based on a simple corpuscular, or particle, model of matter in which particles
interacted with their neighbors by a central-force attractions between particle pairs. As was
gradually realized following works by Navier, Cauchy and Poisson in the 1820’s and 1830’s, the
particle model is too simple and makes predictions concerning relations among elastic moduli
which are not met by experiment. In the isotropic case it predicts that there is only one elastic
constant and that the Poisson ratio has the universal value of 1/4. Most subsequent development
of the subject was in terms of the continuum theory. Controversies concerning the maximum
possible number of independent elastic moduli in the most general anisotropic solid were settled
by English mathematician George Green in 1837, through pointing out that the existence of an
elastic strain energy required that of the 36 elastic constants, relating the six stress components to
the six strains, at most 21 could be independent. Scottish physicist Lord Kelvin (William
Thomson) put this consideration on sounder ground in 1855 as part of his development of
macroscopic thermodynamics, in much the form as it is known today, showing that a strain
energy function must exist for reversible isothermal or adiabatic (isentropic) response, and
working out such results as the (very modest) temperature changes associated with isentropic
elastic deformation.
The middle and late 1800’s were a period in which many basic elastic solutions were derived
and applied to technology and to the explanation of natural phenomena. French mathematician
Barre de Saint-Venant derived in the 1850’s solutions for the torsion of non-circular cylinders,
which explained the necessity of warping displacement of the cross section in the direction
parallel to the axis of twisting, and for flexure of beams due to transverse loadings; the latter
7

allowed understanding of approximations inherent in the simple beam theory of Bernoulli, Euler
and Coulomb. The German physicist Heinrich Rudolph Hertz developed solutions for the
deformation of elastic solids as they are brought into contact, and applied these to model details
of impact collisions. Solutions for stress and displacement due to concentrated forces acting at
an interior point of a full space were derived by Kelvin, and on the surface of a half space by
mathematicians J. V. Bousinesq (French) and V. Cerruti (Italian). The Prussian mathematician
L. Pochhammer analyzed the vibrations of an elastic cylinder and Lamb and the Prussian
physicist P. Jaerisch derived the equations of general vibration of an elastic sphere in the 1880’s,
an effort that was continued by many seismologists in the 1900’s to describe the vibrations of the
Earth. Kelvin derived in 1863 the basic form of the solution of the static elasticity equations for
a spherical solid, and these were applied in following years to such problems as deformation of
the Earth due to rotation and to tidal forcing, and to effects of elastic deformability on the
motions of the Earth’s rotation axis.
The classical development of elasticity never fully confronted the problem of finite elastic
straining, in which material fibers change their lengths by other than very small amounts.
Possibly this was because the common materials of construction would remain elastic only for
very small strains before exhibiting either plastic straining or brittle failure. However, natural
polymeric materials show elasticity over a far wider range (usually also with enough time or rate
effects that they would more accurately be characterized as viscoelastic), and the widespread use
of natural rubber and like materials motivated the development of finite elasticity. While many
roots of the subject were laid in the classical theory, especially in the work of Green, G. Piola
and Kirchhoff in the mid-1800’s, the development of a viable theory with forms of stress-strain
relations for specific rubbery elastic materials, and an understanding of the physical effects of the
nonlinearity in simple problems like torsion and bending, is mainly the achievement of BritishAmerican engineer and applied mathematician Ronald S. Rivlin in the 1940’s and 1950’s.
Waves. Poisson, Cauchy and George G. Stokes showed that the equations of the theory
predicted the existence of two types of elastic deformation waves which could propagate through
isotropic elastic solids. These are called body waves. In the faster type, called longitudinal, or
dilational, or irrotational waves, the particle motion is in the same direction as that of wave
propagation; in the slower, called transverse, or shear, or rotational waves, it is perpendicular to
the propagation direction. No analog of the shear wave exists for propagation through a fluid
medium, and that fact led seismologists in the early 1900’s to understand that the Earth has a
liquid core (at the center of which there is a solid inner core).
8

Lord Rayleigh (John Strutt) showed in 1887 that there is a wave type that could propagate
along surfaces, such that the motion associated with the wave decayed exponentially with
distance into the material from the surface. This type of surface wave, now called a Rayleigh
wave, propagates typically at slightly more than 90% of the shear wave speed, and involves an
elliptical path of particle motion that lies in planes parallel to that defined by the normal to the
surface and the propagation direction. Another type of surface wave, with motion transverse to
the propagation direction and parallel to the surface, was found by Love for solids in which a
surface layer of material sits atop an elastically stiffer bulk solid; this defines the situation for the
Earth’s crust. The shaking in an earthquake is communicated first to distant places by body
waves, but these spread out in three-dimensions and must diminish in their displacement
amplitude as r –1, where r is distance from the source, to conserve the energy propagated by the
wave field. The surface waves spread out in only two dimensions and must, for the same reason,
diminish only as fast as r –1/2. Thus shaking in surface waves is normally the more sensed, and
potentially damaging, effect at moderate to large distances from a crustal earthquake. Indeed,
well before the theory of waves in solids was in hand, Thomas Young had suggested in his 1807
Lectures on Natural Philosophy that the shaking of an earthquake “is probably propagated
through the earth in the same manner as noise is conveyed through air”. (It had been suggested
by American mathematician and astronomer Jonathan Winthrop, following his experience of the
“Boston” earthquake of 1755, that the ground shaking was due to a disturbance propagated like
sound through the air.)
With the development of ultrasonic transducers operated on piezoelectric principles, the
measurement of the reflection and scattering of elastic waves has developed into an effective
engineering technique for the non-destructive evaluation of materials for detection of potentially
dangerous defects such as cracks. Also, very strong impacts, whether from meteorite collision,
weaponry, or blasting and the like in technological endeavors, induce waves in which material
response can be well outside the range of linear elasticity, involving any or all of finite elastic
strain, plastic or viscoplastic response, and phase transformation. These are called shock waves;
they can propagate much beyond the speed of linear elastic waves and are accompanied with
significant heating.
Stress concentrations and fracture. In 1898 G. Kirsch derived the solution for the stress
distribution around a circular hole in a much larger plate under remotely uniform tensile stress.
The same solution can be adapted to the tunnel-like cylindrical cavity of circular section in a
9

bulk solid. His solution showed a significant concentration of stress at the boundary, by a factor
of three when the remote stress was uniaxial tension. Then in 1907 the Russian mathematician
G. Kolosov, and independently in 1914 the British engineer Charles Inglis, derived the analogous
solution for stresses around an elliptical hole. Their solution showed that the concentration of
stress could become far greater as the radius of curvature at an end of the hole becomes small
compared to the overall length of the hole. These results provided the insight to sensitize
engineers to the possibility of dangerous stress concentrations at, for example, sharp re-entrant
corners, notches, cut-outs, keyways, screw threads, and the like in structures for which the
nominal stresses were at otherwise safe levels. Such stress concentration sites are places from
which a crack can nucleate.
The elliptical hole of Kolosov and Inglis defines a crack in the limit when one semi-axis goes
to zero, and the Inglis solution was adopted in that way by British aeronautical engineer A. A.
Griffith in 1921 to describe a crack in a brittle solid. In that work Griffith made his famous
proposition that spontaneous crack growth would occur when the energy released from the
elastic field just balanced the work required to separate surfaces in the solid. Following a
hesitant beginning, in which Griffith’s work was initially regarded as important only for very
brittle solids such as glass, there developed, largely under the impetus of American engineer and
physicist George R. Irwin, a major body of work on the mechanics of crack growth and fracture,
including fracture by fatigue and stress corrosion cracking, starting in the late 1940’s and
continuing into the 1990’s. This was driven initially by the cracking of American fleet of
Liberty ships during the Second World War, by the failures of the British Comet airplane, and by
a host of reliability and safety issues arising in aerospace and nuclear reactor technology. The
new complexion of the subject extended beyond the Griffith energy theory and, in its simplest
and most widely employed version in engineering practice, used Irwin’s stress intensity factor as
the basis for predicting crack growth response under service loadings in terms of laboratory data
that is correlated in terms of that factor. That stress intensity factor is the coefficient of a
characteristic singularity in the linear elastic solution for the stress field near a crack tip, and is
recognized as providing a proper characterization of crack tip stressing in many cases, even
though the linear elastic solution must be wrong in detail near the crack tip due to non-elastic
material response, large strain, and discreteness of material microstructure.
Dislocations. The Italian elastician and mathematician V. Volterra introduced in 1905 the
theory of the elastostatic stress and displacement fields created by dislocating solids. This
involves making a cut in a solid, displacing its surfaces relative to one another by some fixed
10

amount, and joining the sides of the cut back together, filling in with material as necessary. The
initial status of this work was simply as an interesting way of generating elastic fields but, in the
early 1930’s, Geoffrey Ingram Taylor, Egon Orowan and Michael Polanyi realized that just such
a process could be going on in ductile crystals and could provide an explanation of the low
plastic shear strength of typical ductile solids, much like Griffith’s cracks explained low fracture
strength under tension. In this case the displacement on the dislocated surface corresponds to
one atomic lattice spacing in the crystal. It quickly became clear that this concept provided the
correct microscopic description of metal plasticity and, starting with Taylor in the 1930’s and
continuing into the 1990’s, the use of solid mechanics to explore dislocation interactions and the
microscopic basis of plastic flow in crystalline materials has been a major topic, with many
distinguished contributors.
The mathematical techniques advanced by Volterra are now in common use by Earth
scientists in explaining ground displacement and deformation induced by tectonic faulting. Also,
the first elastodynamic solutions for the rapid motion of a crystal dislocations by South African
materials scientist F. R. N. Nabarro, in the early 1950’s, were quickly adapted by seismologists
to explain the radiation from propagating slip distributions on faults. Japanese seismologist H.
Nakano had already shown in 1923 how to represent the distant waves radiated by an earthquake
as the elastodynamic response to a pair of force dipoles amounting to zero net torque. (All of his
manuscripts were destroyed in the fire in Tokyo associated with the great Kwanto earthquake in
that same year, but some of his manuscripts had been sent to Western colleagues and the work
survived.)
Continuum plasticity theory. The macroscopic theory of plastic flow has a history nearly as
old as that of elasticity. While in the microscopic theory of materials, the word “plasticity” is
usually interpreted as denoting deformation by dislocation processes, in macroscopic continuum
mechanics it is taken to denote any type of permanent deformation of materials, especially those
of a type for which time or rate of deformation effects are not the most dominant feature of the
phenomenon (the terms viscoplasticity or creep or viscoelasticity are usually used in such cases).
Coulomb’s work of 1773 on the frictional yielding of soils under shear and normal stress has
been mentioned; yielding denotes the occurrence of large shear deformations without significant
increase in applied stress. This work found applications to explaining the pressure of soils
against retaining walls and footings in work of the French mathematician and engineer J. V.
Poncelot in 1840 and Scottish engineer and physicist W. J. M. Rankine in 1853. The inelastic
deformation of soils and rocks often takes place in situations for which the deforming mass is
11

infiltrated by groundwater, and Austrian-American civil engineer Karl Terzaghi in the 1920’s
developed the concept of effective stress, whereby the stresses which enter a criterion of yielding
or failure are not the total stresses applied to the saturated soil or rock mass, but rather the
effective stresses, which are the difference between the total stresses and those of a purely
hydrostatic stress state with pressure equal to that in the pore fluid. Terzaghi also introduced the
concept of consolidation, in which the compression of a fluid-saturated soil can take place only
as the fluid slowly flows through the pore space under pressure gradients, according to the law of
Darcy; this effect accounts for the time-dependent settlement of constructions over clay soils.
Apart from the earlier observation of plastic flow at large stresses in the tensile testing of
bars, the continuum plasticity of metallic materials begins with Henri Edouard Tresca in 1864.
His experiments on the compression and indentation of metals led him to propose that this type
of plasticity, in contrast to that in soils, was essentially independent of the average normal stress
in the material and dependent only on shear stresses, a feature later rationalized by the
dislocation mechanism. Tresca proposed a yield criterion for macroscopically isotropic metal
polycrystals based on the maximum shear stress in the material, and that was used by SaintVenant to solve a first elastic-plastic problem, that of the partly plastic cylinder in torsion, and
also to solve for the stresses in a completely plastic tube under pressure. German applied
mechanician Ludwig Prandtl developed the rudiments of the theory of plane plastic flow in 1920
and 1921, with an analysis of indentation of a ductile solid by a flat-ended rigid indenter, and the
resulting theory of plastic slip lines was completed by H. Hencky in 1923 and Hilda Geiringer in
1930. Additional developments include the methods of plastic limit analysis, which allowed
engineers to directly calculate upper and lower bounds to the plastic collapse loads of structures
or to forces required in metal forming. Those methods developed gradually over the early
1900’s on a largely intuitive basis, first for simple beam structures and later for plates, and were
put on a rigorous basis within the rapidly developing mathematical theory of plasticity around
1950 by Daniel C. Drucker and William Prager in the United States and Rodney Hill in England.
German applied mathematician Richard von Mises proposed in 1913 that a mathematically
simpler theory of plasticity than that based on the Tresca yield criterion could be based on the
second tensor invariant of the deviatoric stresses (that is, of the total stresses minus those of a
hydrostatic state with pressure equal to the average normal stress over all planes). An equivalent
yield condition had been proposed independently by Polish engineer M.-T. Huber. The Mises
theory incorporates a proposal by M. Levy in 1871 that components of the plastic strain
increment tensor are in proportion to one another just as are the components of deviatoric stress.
12

This criterion was found to generally provide slightly better agreement with experiment than did
that of Tresca, and most work on the application of plasticity theory uses this form. Following a
suggestion of Prandtl, E. Reuss completed the theory in 1930 by adding an elastic component of
strain increments, related to stress increments in the same way as for linear elastic response.
This formulation was soon generalized to include strain hardening, whereby the value of the
second invariant for continued yielding increases with ongoing plastic deformation, and was
extended to high-temperature creep response in metals or other hot solids by assuming that the
second invariant of the plastic (now generally called “creep”) strain rate is a function of that
same invariant of the deviatoric stress, typically a power law type with Arrhenius temperature
dependence. This formulation of plastic and viscoplastic or creep response has been applied to
all manner of problems in materials and structural technology and in flow of geological masses.
Representative problems addressed include the large growth to coalescence of microscopic voids
in the ductile fracture of metals, the theory of the indentation hardness test, the extrusion of metal
rods and rolling of metal sheets, the auto-frettage of gun tubes, design against collapse of ductile
steel structures, estimation the thickness of the Greenland ice sheet, and modeling the geologic
evolution of the Tibetan plateau. Other types of elastic-plastic theories intended for analysis of
ductile single crystals originate from the work of G. I. Taylor and Hill, and bases the criterion for
yielding on E. Schmid’s concept from the 1920’s of a critical resolved shear stress along a
crystal slip plane, in the direction of an allowed slip on that plane; this sort of yield condition has
approximate support from the dislocation theory of plasticity.
Viscoelasticity. The German physicist Wilhelm Weber noticed in 1835 that a load applied to
a silk thread produced not only an immediate extension but also a continuing elongation of the
thread with time. This type of viscoelastic response is especially notable in polymeric solids but
is present to some extent in all types of solids and often does not have a clear separation from
what could be called viscoplastic or creep response. In general, if all the strain is ultimately
recovered when a load is removed from a body, the response is termed viscoelastic, but the term
is also used in cases for which sustained loading leads to strains which are not fully recovered.
The Austrian physicist Ludwig Boltzmann developed in 1874 the theory of linear viscoelastic
stress-strain relations. In their most general form these involve the notion that a step loading
(suddenly imposed stress, subsequently maintained constant) causes an immediate strain
followed by a time-dependent strain which, for different materials, may either have a finite long
time limit or may increase indefinitely with time. Within the assumption of linearity, the strain
at time t in response to a general time dependent stress history (t) can then be written as the
sum (or integral) of terms that involve the step-loading strain response at time t-t' due to a step
13

loading dt' d(t')/dt' at time t'. The theory of viscoelasticity is important for consideration of the
attenuation of stress waves and the damping of vibrations.
A new class of problems arose with the mechanics of very long molecule polymers, without
significant cross-linking, existing either in solution or as a melt. These are fluids in the sense
that they cannot long support shear stress but have, at the same time, remarkable properties like
those of finitely deformed elastic solids. A famous demonstration is to pour one of these fluids
slowly from a bottle and to suddenly cut the flowing stream with scissors; if the cut is not too far
below the place of exit from the bottle, the stream of falling fluid immediately contracts
elastically and returns to the bottle. The molecules are elongated during flow but tend to return
to their thermodynamically preferred coiled configuration when forces are removed. The theory
of such materials came under intense development in the 1950’s after British applied
mathematician James Gardner Oldroyd showed in 1950 how viscoelastic stress-strain relations of
a memory type could be generalized to a flowing fluid. This involves subtle issues on assuring
that the constitutive relation, or rheological relation, between the stress history and the
deformation history at a material “point” is properly invariant to a superposed history of rigid
rotation , which should not affect the local physics determining that relation (the resulting
Coriolis and centrifugal effects are quite negligible at the scale of molecular interactions).
Important contributions on this issue were made by S. Zaremba and G. Jaumann in the first
decade of the 1900’s; they showed how to make tensorial definitions of stress rate that were
invariant to superposed spin and thus were suitable for use in constitutive relations. But it was
only during the 1950’s that these concepts found their way into the theory of constitutive
relations for general viscoelastic materials and, independently and a few years later, properly
invariant stress rates were adopted in continuum formulations of elastic-plastic response.
Computational mechanics. The digital computer revolutionized the practice of many areas
of engineering and science, and solid mechanics was among the first fields to benefit from its
impact. Many computational techniques have been used in that field, but the one which emerged
by the end of the 1970’s as, by far, the most widely adopted is the finite element method. This
method was outlined by the mathematician Richard Courant in 1943 and was developed
independently, and put to practical use on computers, in the mid-1950’s by aeronautical
structures engineers M. J. Turner, R. W. Clough, H. C. Martin and L. J. Topp in the United
States and by J. H. Argyris and S. Kelsey in Britain. Their work grew out of earlier attempts at
systematic structural analysis for complex frameworks of beam elements. The method was soon
recast in a variational framework and related to earlier efforts at approximate solution of
14

problems described by variational principles, by substituting trial functions of unknown
amplitude into the variational functional which is then rendered stationary as an algebraic
function of the amplitude coefficients. In the most common version of the finite element
method, the domain to be analyzed is divided into cells, or elements, and the displacement field
within each element is interpolated in terms of displacements at a few points around the element
boundary, and sometimes within it, called nodes. The interpolation is done so that the
displacement field is continuous across element boundaries for any choice of the nodal
displacements. The strain at every point can thus be expressed in terms of nodal displacements,
and it is then required that the stresses associated with these strains, through the stress-strain
relations of the material, satisfy the principle of virtual work for arbitrary variation of the nodal
displacements. This generates as many simultaneous equations as there are degrees of freedom
in the finite element model, and numerical techniques for solving such systems of equations are
programmed for computer solution.
The finite element method and other computational techniques (finite differences, spectral
expansions, boundary integral equations) have made a major change in the practice of, and
education for, engineering in the various areas that draw on solid mechanics. Previously, many
educators saw little point in teaching engineers much of the subject beyond the techniques of
elementary beam theory developed in the 1700’s by Bernoulli, Euler and Coulomb. More
advanced analyses involved sufficiently difficult mathematics as to be beyond the reach of the
typical practitioner, and were regarded as the domain of advanced specialists who would,
themselves, find all but the simpler cases intractable. The availability of software incorporating
the finite element method, and other procedures of computational mechanics and design analysis,
has placed the advanced concepts of solid mechanics into the hands of a far broader community
of engineers. At the same time, it has created a necessity for them and other users to have a
much deeper education in the subject, so that the computational tools are used properly and at
full effectiveness.

BASIC PRINCIPLES
In addressing any problem in continuum or solid mechanics, we need to bring together the
following considerations: (1) The Newtonian equations of motion, in the more general form
recognized in the subsequent century by Euler, expressing conservation of linear and angular
momentum for finite bodies (rather than just for point particles), and the related concept of stress
15

as formalized by Cauchy; (2) Consideration of the geometry of deformation and thus expression
of strains in terms of gradients in the displacement field; and (3) Use of relations between stress
and strain that are characteristic of the material in question, and of the stress level, temperature
and time scale of the problem considered.
These three considerations suffice for most problems in solid and structural mechanics for
simple materials. They must be supplemented for solids undergoing diffusion processes in
which one material constituent moves relative to another (as of interest sometimes for a fluidinfiltrated soils or petroleum reservoir rocks), and in cases for which the induction of a
temperature field by deformation processes and the related heat transfer cannot be neglected.
The latter cases require that we supplement the above three considerations with the following:
(4) Equations for conservation of mass of diffusing constituents; (5) The first law of
thermodynamics, which introduces the concept of heat flux and relates changes in energy to
work and heat supply, and (6) Relations which express the diffusive fluxes and heat flow in
terms of spatial gradients of appropriate chemical potentials and of temperature. Also, in many
important technological devices, electric and magnetic fields affect the stressing, deformation
and motion of matter. Examples are provided by piezoelectric crystals and other ceramics for
electric or magnetic actuators, and the coils and supporting structures of powerful
electromagnets. In these cases, we must add the following: (7) Scottish physicist James Clerk
Maxwell’s set of equations which interrelate electric and magnetic fields to polarization and
magnetization of material media, and to the density and motion of electric charge; and (8)
Augmented relations between stress and strain which now, for example, express all of stress,
polarization and magnetization in terms of strain, electric field and magnetic intensity, and of
temperature. Also, the second law of thermodynamics, combined with the principles mentioned
above, serves to constrain physically allowed relations between stress, strain and temperature in
(3). Such considerations were first brought to bear in a purely mechanical context by Green in
1837, as based on the existence of a strain energy which generalized, for a continuum, the
potential energy of the discrete dynamical systems of analytical mechanics; they were later
rooted in the development of macroscopic thermodynamics by Kelvin. The second law also
constrains the other types of relations described in (6) and (8) above. Such relations are
commonly referred to as constitutive relations.
In general, the stress-strain relations are to be determined by experiment. A variety of
mechanical testing machines and geometrical configurations of material specimens have been
devised to measure them. These allow, in different cases, simple tensile, compressive, or shear
16

stressing, and sometimes combined stressing with several different components of stress, and the
determination of material response over a range of temperature, strain rate and loading history.
The testing of round bars under tensile stress, with precise measurement of their extension to
obtain the strain, is common for metals and for technological ceramics and polymers. For rocks
and soils, which generally carry load in compression, the most common test involves a round
cylinder that is compressed along its axis, often while being subjected to confining pressure on
its curved face. Often, a measurement interpreted by solid mechanics theory is used to determine
some of the properties entering stress-strain relations. For example, measuring the speed of
deformation waves or the natural frequencies of vibration of structures can be used to extract the
elastic moduli of materials of known mass density, and measurement of indentation hardness of a
metal can be used to estimate its plastic shear strength.
In some favorable cases, stress strain relations can be calculated approximately by applying
appropriate principles of mechanics at the microscale of the material considered. In a composite
material, the microscale could be regarded as the scale of the separate materials making up the
reinforcing fibers and matrix. When their individual stress-strain relations are known from
experiment, continuum mechanics principles applied at the scale of the individual constituents
can be used to predict the overall stress-strain relations for the composite. In the case of a
polycrystalline metal undergoing elastic or plastic deformation, the overall stress-strain relations
are sometimes estimated by applying continuum mechanics principles to the heterogeneous
aggregate of joined crystals, assuming that we know the stress-strain relations of the single
crystals constituting the individual grains. For rubbery polymer materials, made up of long chain
molecules which would randomly configure themselves into coil-like shapes, some aspects of the
elastic stress-strain response can be obtained by applying principles of statistical
thermodynamics to the partial uncoiling of the array of molecules by imposed strain. In the case
of a single crystallite of an element like silicon or aluminum, or simple compound like silicon
carbide, the relevant microscale is that of the atomic spacing in the crystals, and principles
governing atomic force laws at that scale can be used to estimate elastic constants. For example,
quantum mechanical principles, implemented on digital computers in the framework of density
functional theory, in which one solves for the density distribution of electrons amidst an array of
fixed atomic nuclei, are the basis for such calculations. For consideration of plastic flow
processes in metals and in sufficiently hot ceramics, the relevant microscale involves the network
of dislocation lines that move within crystals. These lines shift atom positions relative to one
another by one atomic spacing as they move along slip planes. Important features of elasticplastic and viscoplastic stress-strain relations can be understood by modeling the stress
17

dependence of dislocation generation and motion, and the resulting dislocation entanglement and
immobilization processes which account for strain hardening. For rubbery polymeric solids
showing viscoelastic response, like gradual relaxation of stress with time after a strain is imposed
and subsequently held constant, the microscale processes involve the gradual sliding of long
molecules relative to the network of like molecules with which they have entangled. In such
cases prediction of viscoelastic stress-strain relations involves, very roughly, the modeling of
slow pulling of molecules along and out of the “tubes” formed by the other molecules with
which they are entangled.
To examine the mathematical structure of the theory, considerations (1) to (3) above are now
further developed. For this purpose, we adopt a continuum model of matter, making no detailed
reference to its discrete structure at molecular, or possibly other larger microscopic, scales that
are far below those of the intended application.
Linear and Angular Momentum Principles: Stress, and Equations of Motion
Let x denote the position vector of a point in space as measured relative to the origin of a
Newtonian reference frame; x has the components (x1, x2, x3) relative to a Cartesian set of axes,
fixed in the reference frame, which we denote as the 1, 2 and 3 axes, Figure 1. (This form of
notation proves more convenient for the subject than a convention which may be more familiar
to many readers, in which positions are denoted as (x, y, z) and the reference axes as the X, Y
and Z axes.) Suppose that a material occupies the part of space considered and let v = v(x, t) be
the velocity vector of the material point which occupies position x at time t; that same material
point will be at position x + v dt an infinitesimal time interval dt later. Let  = (x, t) be the
mass density of the material. Here v and  are macroscopic variables. What we idealize in the
continuum model as a material point, moving as a smooth function of time, will correspond on
molecular (or larger but still “microscopic”) length scales to a region with strong fluctuations of
density and velocity. In terms of phenomena at such scales,  corresponds to an average of mass
per unit of volume, and  v to an average of linear momentum per unit volume, as taken over
spatial and temporal scales that are large compared to those of the microscale processes but still
small compared to those of the intended application or phenomenon under study. Thus v of the
continuum theory is a mass-weighted average velocity, from the microscopic viewpoint. (There
do not generally exist tractable formulations of macroscopic mechanics when such a separation
of scales does not apply. This is an important area of research since many important phenomena
involving the fracture of solids and fine scale inelastic deformation processes do not have a clear
18

separation of length scales. Large scale digital computer simulations of systems of discrete
particles allow some of the simpler of such cases to be addressed; these include atomistic
modeling of fracture and plastic flow processes in small regions of crystals, and flows of
granular solids with highly idealized particle interactions.)

Figure 1. Coordinate system; position (x) and velocity (v) vectors; body force f dV acting
on element dV of volume, and surface force T dS acting on element dS of surface.
We observe that an infinitesimal element of material occupying volume dV at x moves and
distorts in such a way that  dV, which corresponds to the (conserved) mass of the element,
remains constant. The linear momentum of the element is  v dV and its angular momentum
relative to the coordinate origin is given as the vector, or cross, product x  ( v dV). Thus the
linear momentum P, and angular momentum H relative to the coordinate origin, of the matter
instantaneously occupying any volume V of space are then given by summing up the linear and
angular momentum vectors of each element of material. Such summation over infinitesimal
elements is represented mathematically by the integrals
P = V  v dV , H = V  x  v dV
We limit attention to situations in which relativistic effects can be ignored.
Let F denote the total force and M the total torque or moment (relative to the coordinate
origin) acting instantaneously on the material occupying any arbitrary volume V. The basic laws
19

of Newtonian mechanics are the linear and angular momentum principles that
F = dP/dt ,

M = dH/dt ,

where time derivatives of P and H are calculated following the motion of the matter which
occupies V at time t. Newton’s focus was on matter in situations for which the particle point of
view is valid, so that only F = dP/dt is required. It was Euler who recognized the need for the
two vectorial laws of motion for general finite bodies; he explicitly stated the pair of laws F =
dP/dt and M = dH/dt in 1776, then for a rigid body, but had implicitly recognized them as early
as 1752. When either F or M vanish, these equations of motion correspond to conservation of
linear or angular momentum. An important, very common, and non-trivial class of problems in
solid mechanics involves determining the deformed and stressed configuration of solids or
structures that are in static equilibrium; in that case the relevant basic equations are F = 0 and M
= 0. The understanding of such conditions for equilibrium, at least in a rudimentary form, long
predates Newton. Indeed, Archimedes of Syracuse (3rd Century BC), the great Greek
mathematician and arguably the first theoretically and experimentally minded physical scientist,
understood these equations at least in a nonvectorial form appropriate for systems of parallel
forces. That is shown by his treatment of the hydrostatic equilibrium of a partially submerged
body and his establishment of the principle of the lever (torques about the fulcrum sum to zero)
and the concept of center of gravity. Archimedes’ approach to natural philosophy is now the
standard model of science but was overshadowed for about 2000 years by Aristotle’s (4th
Century BC) style of ex-cathedra, if sometimes insightful, speculation. The Dutch
mathematician and engineer, Simon Stevin recognized the vectorial nature of the equations F = 0
and M = 0 for static equilibrium, developing the parallelogram law of vectorial force addition in
1586 and correctly analyzing the principle of the lever for systems of nonparallel forces.
Stress vector and equations of motion in integral form. We now assume that F and M
derive from two type of forces, namely body forces f, like gravitational attractions, defined such
that force f dV acts on volume element dV (see Figure 1), and surface forces which represent the
mechanical effect of matter immediately adjoining that along the surface, S, of the volume V that
we consider. Cauchy formalized in 1822 a basic assumption of continuum mechanics that such
force
force
, defined so that T
dS is
surface forces could be represented as a vector distribution T
an element of force acting over the area dS of the surface, Figure 1. (Shortly, we will want to
force
define a stress vector T, of which this T
will be a part; it is typically the dominant part for
solid materials.) Thus, for any arbitrarily chosen region, like in Figure 1, we assume that total
20

force and torque acting can be written, respectively, as
F = S T force dS + V f dV , and M = S x  T force dS + V x  f dV .
These should now be equated, respectively, to the rates of change of linear and angular
momentum, dP/dt and dH/dt.
To calculate dP/dt, note that the integrand for P contains the product dV times v. Since the
mass element dV is invariant in the motion, it has zero time derivative, and we need only
calculate the derivative of its velocity v, which is acceleration a. However, the correct
expression for dP/dt contains the term which has just been motivated plus a second term:
dP / dt = V  a dV + S Tmom. fluxdS .
That second term arises because there is a microscopic motion, in general, relative to the massmom. flux
averaged macroscopic motion, and that relative motion causes some momentum flux T
per unit area, across the surfaces S. In the continuum model, the surface S moves through space
such that the velocity of the surface in a direction normal to itself is n v , where n is the unit
outer normal to S at the point considered and v is the velocity at that point. Since v is a massweighted average of fluctuating velocities on a molecular (or larger microscopic) scale, this
assures that there is no mass transferred across S, but not that there is no momentum transferred;
T mom. flux accounts for that latter transfer. In a similar way, the rate of change of angular
momentum can be calculated and we obtain the expression
dH / dt = V  x  a dV + S x  T mom. fluxdS .
The acceleration a = a(x,t) = dv/dt is calculated such that the time derivative of v is taken
following the motion of a material point. Thus a(x,t)dt corresponds to the difference between
v(x + v dt, t + dt) and v(x, t). Also, in deriving the expression for dH/dt, v = dx/dt has been used,
with the derivative again following the motion, and it has been noted that v  v = 0.
We now define the stress, or traction, vector T by

T=T

force

mom. flux

T

.
21

In gases and, at least for viscous shearing effects, in liquids the microscale momentum transports
mom. flux
T
, resulting from fast moving molecules randomly moving into regions of slower
motion and vice-versa, are the main contribution to T. In solids they generally are a small
contribution, especially at low temperatures compared to that for melting. It will generally be
the case that microscopic mass elements moving at a velocity different from v, and hence
mom. flux
contributing to T
, will undergo collisional interactions with other mass elements within
a short distance of the surface element considered, reducing their speed, on average, to v. This
mom. flux
per unit area in the near vicinity of the surface so,
delivers impulsive forces – T
including their effect, it is legitimate to refer to the total stress vector T as a force per unit area,
as is often done in the literature of the subject.
Then ,using the definition of T, when we equate the expressions for F and M above to those
for dP/dt and dH/dt, we obtain the equations of motion, in integral form, for a continuum,

S TdS + V f dV = V  a dV , S x  TdS + V x  f dV = V  x  a dV
We now assume these to hold good for every conceivable choice of region V.
Stress components. Nine quantities ij (i, j = 1, 2, 3) called stress components may be
defined at each point of the medium; these will vary with position and time, ij = ij(x, t), and
have the following interpretation. Suppose that we consider an element of surface dS through a
point x with dS oriented so that its outer normal (pointing away from the region V, bounded by
S) points in the positive xi direction, where i is any of 1, 2 or 3. Then i1, i2 and i3 at x are
defined as the Cartesian components of the stress vector T (call it T(i)) acting on this dS. Figure
2 shows the components of such stress vectors for faces in each of the three coordinate
directions. To use a vector notation with e1, e2 and e3 denoting unit vectors along the coordinate
axes (Figure 1),
T(i) = i1 e1 + i2 e2 + i3 e3 .
Thus the stress ij at x is the stress in the j direction associated with an i-oriented face through
point x; the physical dimension of the ij is [Force]/[Length]2. The components 11, 22 and
33 are stresses directed perpendicular, or normal, to the faces on which they act and are normal
stresses; the ij with i  j are directed parallel to the plane on which they act and are shear
22

stresses.

Figure 2. Stress components; first index denotes plane, second denotes direction.
By hypothesis, the linear momentum principle applies for any volume V. If we first apply it
to a small region including a general position x, and consider the limit of the resulting equation
as both the volume V and bounding surface area S of the region approach zero, so that the region
shrinks onto point x. We can observe that the volume integrals, when divided by area S,
approach zero in that limit. Thus, for such choices of region, the linear momentum principle
requires that we
set to zero the limit of (1 / S)S TdS as S approaches zero. Consider a thin sliver of material at x,
(Figure 3) with thin direction along the x1 axis, let that thickness approach zero, and then let the
diameter of the region approach zero so that it shrinks onto x. We thus derive that T(–1) + T(1) =
0, which is a special case of the action-reaction principle. (It, like other variants of the actionreaction principle, can be regarded as a derivable consequence of the hypothesis that the linear
momentum principle applies for every choice of region, including two subregions which act
upon one another and exert the forces referred to as the action and reaction.) The result tells us
that, for any direction i,
T(-i) = – T(i) = – i1 e1 – i2 e2 – i3 e3
and hence that – i1, – i2 and – i3 are the Cartesian components of the stress vector acting on a
surface element dS through x whose outer normal points in the negative i direction.

23

Figure 3. Linear momentum principle leads to action-reaction, T (–1) + T (1) = 0.
Next we consider a small tetrahedron (Figure 4) at x with inclined face having outward unit
normal vector n, and other three faces oriented perpendicular to the three coordinate axes. Let S
denote the area of the inclined face and S(1), S(2) and S(3) the areas of the faces with outer
normals respectively in the negative 1, 2 and 3 directions; we note from geometry that S(i)/S = ni
(this also leads to the correct result when the normal to face S(i) points in the positive i direction,
in which case ni < 0). Letting the size of the tetrahedron approach zero, so that it shrinks onto x,
the linear momentum principle requires that T + n1 T(–1) + n2 T(–2) + n3 T(–3) = 0. Thus,
using the expression above for the T(–i) we derive the result that the stress vector T on a surface
element through x with outward normal n can be expressed as a linear function of the ij at x.
The relation is such that the j component of the stress vector T is
3

Tj  e j T = n1 1 j + n2  2 j + n3  3 j =  ni  ij (j = 1, 2, 3)
i =1

Summation convention. It turns out that almost always, when we have a sum over an index
like i in the last equation, the index on which we sum is repeated precisely twice but other
indices (j there) appear only once. Also, in equations with multiple summations, as will be found
subsequently, the various indices on which we sum are each repeated twice. Thus, many authors
prefer to drop the summation signs and adopt the summation convention that one always
understands a repeated index to denote a sum. In that convention, the last equation would be
written as Tj = ni  ij . Similarly, the earlier equation defining stress components would be
(i)

written as T

=  ije j . Occasionally we encounter an equation with a repeated index that it not

intended to be summed, or perhaps that index appears more than two times. In such (rare) cases,
we simly say that the summation convention is suspended.

24

T(3) S(3)
(1)

T
2

S

T S

(1)

n

S (1)
1

S

T(2) S (2 )

3

Figure 4. Cauchy tetrahedron with inclined face having an arbitrary orientation n;
constructed about some material point, and to be shrunk onto that point in the limit to
be taken. Linear momentum principle relates T for such an inclined face to the ij.
Tensors; stress transformations. This relation for T (or Tj) also tells us that the ij have the
mathematical property of being the components of a second rank tensor. To show that, suppose
that a different set of Cartesian reference axes 1, 2 and 3 have been chosen. Let x1, x2, x3
denote the components of the position vector of point x and let k l (k, l = 1, 2, 3) denote the
9 stress components relative to that coordinate system. Choose n in the above equation to
coincide with the direction of the unit vector e  along the k axis. Then, by the definition of
k

stress components we can write
T = T( k ) =  k1
 e1 +  k 2 e 2 +  k 3 e3 ,

whereas from the result derived just above, we can also write
T=

3



j =1

T je j =

3

3

 (  ni ij )e j
j=1 i=1

Using the first form for T, we can form the scalar product e l T = e l  T( k ) =  kl , which must
also hold when we use the second form. Noting also that since n = e k , ni = e k  ei , we thus
obtain
3

3

 kl
 =    ki  lj  ij (where  pq = e p e q for p, q = 1,2,3)
i =1 j =1

25

which is the defining equation of a second rank tensor. Here  pq gives the cosine of the angle
between the p  and q axes, and defines a component of the orthogonal transformation matrix
[], satisfying []T[] = [][]T =[I]. (The first index of a quantity like  pq denotes row
number and the second the column number in the corresponding matrix; superscript T denotes
transpose, i.e., interchange rows and columns; [I] denotes the unit matrix, a 3 by 3 matrix with
unity for every diagonal element and zero elements elsewhere; and if [A] = [B][C], then Aij =
Bi1C1j + Bi2C2j + Bi3C3j for 3 by 3 matrices like here.). The coordinates themselves are related
by
xk =

3

 ki xi ,

i=1

and the same relation which applies to components of vectors such as v, a, and f introduced
above, which may be called first rank tensors.
Note that with the summation convention, some of the above transformations would be
 =  ki  lj  ij (this involves two repeated indices, i and j, and hence implies a
written as  kl
summation over both), and xk =  kix i . Also, the properties of [] are expressed by
T
T
 ik
 kj   ki kj =  ik kj
  ik jk = ij ,

where ij is called the Kronecker delta, and describes the components of the unit matrix [I].
Hence ij is unity when i and j coincide, and is zero otherwise. Also, we may note that, for
example, ijv j = vi , where we sum on the repeated j. As a little practice in this notation, let us
multiply both sides of xk =  kix i by  kl , so that k, now repeated, becomes an index over which
there is summation too. We thus get  kl xk =  kl kixi = li xi = xl , and hence have inverted the
 =  ki  lj  ij by  kr  ls .
coordinate transformation. Similarly, let us multiply both sides of  kl
Now k and l are repeated and hence we are summing over them, as well as over i and j on the
right side of the equation, in getting  kr  ls kl =  kr ki  ls lj  ij = ri  sj ij =  rs , thus
inverting the second-rank tensor transformation.
Equations of motion, local form. Now let us apply the linear momentum principle to an
arbitrary finite body. The divergence theorem of multivariable calculus shows that integrals over
the area of a closed surface S, with integrand nif(x), may be rewritten as integrals over the
26

volume V enclosed by S, with integrand f(x)/xi, when f(x) is a differentiable function. Thus,
using the expression for Tj above, we may see that
  1j

S Tj dS = S (n1 1j + n2  2 j + n3  3j )dS = V 

x1

+

 2 j
x2

+

 3j 
 dV
x3 	

at least when the ij are continuous and differentiable, which is the typical case. If we now
insert this expression for the surface integral in the linear momentum principle, that principle
reduces to an equality in terms of volume integrals. It must hold no matter how we choose the
volume and this can be so only if the same equation holds in terms of the integrands and thus, if
the linear momentum principle is to apply for every conceivable choice of region V, we must
satisfy the three equations
 1 j
x1

+

 2 j
x 2

+

 3 j

3 
ij
+ fj  
+ f j = a j
x 3
x
i
i =1

( j = 1, 2, 3)

These are the equations of motion, in local form, for a continuum. In the summation convention,
they would be written as  ij / x i + f j = a j , or more concisely as  ij ,i + f j = a j when we
use also the comma notation for partial derivatives, in which F / xi is written as F, i .
Consequence of angular momentum: stress symmetry. Once the above consequences of the
linear momentum principle are accepted, the only further result which can be derived from
requiring that the angular momentum principle apply for every conceivable choice of region V is
that

 ij =  ji (i, j = 1, 2, 3) .
Thus the stress tensor is symmetric. To see the origin of this, let us use the summation
convention for conciseness and note that the angular momentum principle can be written
equivalently as

S (xiTj  x j Ti )dS + V (xi f j  x j fi )dV = V (xi a j  x j ai )dV

.

Now, using Tj = nk kj , then the divergence theorem, and then  kj / x k + f j = a j , the first
term can be rearranged to
27



S (xiTj  x j Ti )dS = S (x ink  kj  x jnk  ki )dS = V x

k

(x i kj  x j ki )dV

 kj
 ki
= V [( ij   ji ) + (xi
 xj
)]dV = V [( ij   ji )  (x i f j  x j fi ) + (x ia j  x j ai )]dV .
x k
xk
When we substitute that into the above form of the angular momentum principle, we are left with

V ( ij   ji )dV =0
and, since that must hold for every choice of region V,  ij =  ji .

Figure 5. Forces acting in the 1 direction on a cube of side length L centered on some point x
3
of interest; we will let L  0 , and thus need the forces accurately only to order L ; stresses
around the cube faces are developed in a Taylor series expansion about their values at x.
Alternative derivation, local equations of motion. For another way of thinking about the
origin of the local equations of motion, consider a small cube of material of side length L
centered on some arbitrarily chosen point x. Shortly, we will let L  0, which turns out to mean
that we will only need to know forces acting on the cube accurately to terms of order L3.
Consider all forces in the 1 direction acting on the cube; some are shown in Figure 5. The total
body force is f1L3 . We write the stress components around the surface of the cube by doing a
Taylor series expansion about point x at the cube center. In the limit L  0, the same stress 11
acts on the face of the cube oriented in the +1 direction as on the face oriented in the –1
direction, so that the main forces 11L2 due to the stress 11 on those faces balance each other.
However, to get the net force from 11 correct to order L3, we must recognize that the average
stress will be 11 +(L / 2) 11 / x1 + ... on the cube face oriented in the +1 direction, and
28

11  (L / 2)11 / x1 + ... on that in the –1 direction. Here " + ... " stands for terms from the
Taylor expansion which are of higher order in L than those explicitly shown, and which make no
contribution in the limit L  0. Recognizing that these average stresses on the ± 1 faces act
2
over an area L , the net force (stress times area) due to variations of stress 11 is therefore
L3 11 / x1 + ... . (For simplicity, we identify stress as force per unit area in this discussion,
although the stresses also contain the momentum flux contributions discussed above.) Similarly,
an average stress  21 + (L / 2) 21 / x 2 +... will act on the cube face oriented in the +2
direction, and  21  (L / 2) 21 / x 2 + ... on that in the –2 direction, contributing a net force
L3 21 / x2 + ... , and stresses of type  31 (not illustrated in Figure 5) contribute net force
3
L  31 / x3 + ... .

When we sum all these forces and set them equal to the mass of the cube, L3, times its
acceleration a1 in the 1 direction, there results
(

 11  21  31 3
+
+
)L + ... + f1 L3 = L3a1 ,
x1
x 2
x3

where now +... represents terms of order L4 and higher. Thus, when we divide by L3 and let L
 0, we obtain
 11  21  31
+
+
+ f1 = a1
x1
x 2
x3

which reproduces the first (corresponding to j = 1) of the three local equations of motion
obtained above. The other equations for j = 2 and 3 may be derived similarly.
As a simple route to understanding the symmetry of the stress tensor, refer to Figure 2 and let
us similarly consider the element shown there as a cube of side lengths L centered on some point
x of interest. The stress component 12 generates force + 12 L2 +... on the face oriented in the
+1 direction, and – 12 L2 +... on that in the –1 direction, of which the leading terms constitutes a
force couple separated by distance L, and hence their effect is to generate a torque 12 L3 +...
about an axis in the 3 direction passing through the mass center of the element. The stress
component  21 on the cube faces oriented in the ± 2 directions generates torque –  21L3 +...
about the axis in the 3 direction, so that the net torque is (12   21)L3 +... . That net torque
should be equated to the 3-component of the rate of change of angular momentum of the element
about its mass center. However, that angular momentum and its rate of change are of higher
29

3

3

order than L , and therefore this leading term in the torque, of apparent order L , must actually
vanish. Thus we must have 12 =  21 . By extending the same argument to torques about other
directions, we conclude that  ij =  ji in general.
Principal stresses. Symmetry of the stress tensor, together with the tensor transformation
property, has the important consequence that, at each point x, there exist three mutually
perpendicular directions along which there are no shear stresses. These directions are called the
principal directions and the corresponding normal stresses are called the principal stresses. If
we order the principal stresses algebraically as I, II, III (Figure 6), then the normal stress on
any face (given as  n = n  T ) satisfies
I  n  III .

Figure 6. Principal stresses.
In fact, the principal stresses  and principal directions n are the solutions of the eigenvalue
(or characteristic value) problem
3

  ij n j   ni = 0

(i = 1, 2, 3)

j=1

which follows from asking the equivalent questions: For what directions is n stationary relative
to infinitesimal variations of the direction n? For what directions is the stress vector T aligned
with n? The determinant of the coefficients of the components of n must vanish, so that

30

11  
 12
 13 


det   21
 22  
 23  =  3 + I1 2 + I2 + I3 = 0
  31
 32
 33   
where
3
1
1 3 3
I1 =   ii , I2 =  I12 +    ij  ji ,
2
2 i =1 j =1
i=1

I3 = det[ ] .

Here [] denotes the 3 by 3 matrix whose elements are ij. Since the principal stresses are
determined by I1, I2, I3 and can have no dependence on how we chose the coordinate system
with respect to which we refer the components of stress, I1, I2 and I3 must be independent of that
choice and are therefore called stress invariants. One may readily verify that they have the same
values when evaluated in terms of  ij above as in terms of  ij by using the tensor
transformation law and properties noted for the orthogonal transformation matrix [].
Stress transformation in a plane, Mohr circle. Stress transformation in a plane is often of
interest. Referring to Figure 7, suppose that the in-plane stress components acting in the x1 ,x 2
plane are given, as in the upper left of the figure. We wish to find the in-plane stress components
acting across a surface which is tilted about the x3 axis at angle  , measured positive anticlockwise relative to the x1 axis as shown. That surface has unit normal n and we let s be an
orthogonal unit vector along the surface in the x1 ,x 2 plane, also as shown. The normal stress to
be determined is called  n and the shear stress  ns ; see the upper center diagram in Figure 7.
Letting T be the stress vector on the inclined plane, we obtain the stress components as
 n = n  T and  ns = s  T . Thus, recalling the previous expression for T,
3

3

 n = n [  (  ni ij )e j ] =
j=1 i=1

3

3

 

j =1 i=1

3

3

ni n j ij , and  ns = s [  (  ni ij )e j ] =
j=1 i=1

3

3

 

j =1 i=1

ni sj ij .

Since n = (sin  , cos  , 0) and s = (cos , sin  , 0) , these reduce (recalling that 12 =  21 ) to

 +  22  22   11
 n =  11 sin 2   212 sin  cos +  22 cos2  = 11
+
cos2   12 sin2 ,
2
2
   11
 ns =  11 sin  cos  +  12 (cos2   sin 2  ) +  22 sin  cos  = 22
sin 2 +  12 cos2 .
2

31

A little analysis shows that the latter expressions are the parametric equations (with parameter  )
of a circle in a Mohr plane whose axes are  n and  ns ; the circle is called the Mohr circle. It
2

2

has center at (11 +  22 ) / 2 along the  n axis, has radius ( 22   11) / 4 + 12 , and rotation
of the inclined interface anti-clockwise by  in the physical ( x1 ,x 2 ) plane corresponds to anticlockwise rotation by 2 in the Mohr plane.

Figure 7. Mohr circle representation of stress transformation in a plane. A general
stress state is shown at the upper left. The circle is used to determine the normal
stress  n and shear stress  ns , upper center, acting on a plane inclined at angle  .
The quickest way to construct the Mohr circle is usually to identify two points which lie on
it, such uniquely locating the circle given that its center lies on the  n axis. Thus, we first
observe that ( n ,  ns ) = ( 22 ,  21) must be the point on the circle corresponding to  = 0 , and
then that ( n ,  ns ) = (11,   12 ) must be another point on it, corresponding to  =  / 2 .
Both of those points are labeled in Figure 7. Once the circle is drawn, the stress state for a
general orientation at angle  is given by rotating in the same sense around the circle, by angle
2 , from the point ( 22 ,  21) on it corresponding to  = 0 . As seen in the figure, an angle 2
may be defined as that marked, and then  =  is the face orientation for which the maximum
32

in-plane normal stress  max acts. That orientation is shown in the upper right of the figure,
where  max and the least in-plane normal stress  min are the extremity points of the Mohr circle
along the  n axis. Finally, by an elementary geometric relation, the angle  +  between the
general orientation considered and that of the maximum in-plane normal stress can be identified
as marked.
Further remarks. Occasionally there is need for, or use of, continuum theories in which
distributed surface couples (torques without net force) are assumed to act over each element dS
of surface, thus defining a couple stress vector, and also there may be appeal to the notion of
body couples in addition to body forces acting on elements dV of volume. We do not consider
such cases here but, in such theories, the stress tensor is not symmetric and its anti-symmetric
part balances the body couple as well as the gradient of a third rank couple stress tensor which
may then be defined. Such notions appear to have originated with W. Voigt in 1887; the formal
theory was developed by the Italian elasticians and mathematicians, the brothers E. and F.
Cosserat, in 1909, and was revived and greatly extended by Mindlin in the 1960’s.
While the angular momentum principle must be accepted as an independent law of physics,
supplementing the linear momentum principle, there are situations for which the angular
principle can be derived by combining the linear principle with some special hypothesis
concerning interactions of material elements with one another. For example, a view of matter as
particles which exert equal and opposite forces pairwise on one another, directed along the line
joining a particle pair, leads to the angular momentum principle as a derived consequence.
(However, that particle model is known to be too simple a model for atoms in a crystal; it leads
to a “Cauchy relation” between elastic constants, for which the elastic moduli Cijkl to be
introduced later are unaffected by interchange of any two indices and, for an isotropic material,
to a Poisson ratio of 1/4. Such relations were widely discussed following the studies of that
particle model by Navier, Cauchy, and Poisson in the 1820’s and 1830’s, but they are not
generally observed to hold experimentally.) For elastic solids, the simple assumption that the
strain energy of deformed material is unaffected by a superposed rigid rotation is enough to
derive ij = ji, and hence to derive the angular principle as a consequence of the linear
principle.
This exposition has sought consequences of the basic laws of mechanics in the most
generally useful context for three dimensional solids. Very often, both in nature and technology,
there is interest in structural elements in forms that might be identified as strings, wires, rods,
33

bars, beams, or columns, or as membranes, plates, or shells. These are usually idealized as,
respectively, one- or two-dimensional continua. One possible approach is to develop the
consequences of the linear and angular momentum principles entirely within that idealization,
working in terms of net axial and shear forces, and bending and twisting torques, at each point
along a one-dimensional continuum, or in terms of forces and torques per unit length of surface
in a two-dimensional continuum. In fact such notions for the bending of beams as modeled as
one-dimensional elastic lines predate Cauchy’s formalization of the stress principle and, as has
been noted, were introduced by James Bernoulli and Euler in the flowering of mechanics in the
1700’s following Newton’s work. Formulations for such structures can also be based directly on
the three dimensional theory, as generally simplified by making approximate assumptions
concerning the variation of certain stress or strain components along the thin direction(s),
typically these being assumptions which become exact in long wavelength limits. Such
approaches to beams began also long before Cauchy and Navier, with Coulomb’s 1776 analysis
of stresses induced by the bending of a beam of finite cross section.
Geometry of Deformation: Strain, Strain-Displacement Relations, Compatibility
The shape of a solid or structure changes with time during a deformation process. To
characterize deformation, we adopt a certain reference configuration which we agree to call
undeformed. Often, that reference configuration is chosen as an unstressed state, but such is
neither necessary nor always convenient. Measuring time from zero at a moment when the body
exists in that reference configuration, we may then use the upper case X to denote the position
vectors of material points when t = 0. At some other time t, a material point which was at X will
have moved to some spatial position x. We thus describe the deformation as the mapping x =
x(X, t), with x(X, 0) = X. The displacement vector u = x(X, t) – X and, also, v = x(X, t)/t and
a = 2x(X, t)/t2.
It is simplest to write equations for strain in a form which, while approximate in general, is
suitable for the case when any infinitesimal line element dX of the reference configuration
undergoes extremely small rotations and fractional change in length, in deforming to the
corresponding line element dx. These conditions are met when ui / X j <<1 . The solids with
which we deal are very often sufficiently rigid, at least under the loadings typically applied to
them, that these conditions are realized in practice. Linearized expressions for strain in terms of
[u/X], appropriate to this situation, are called small strain or infinitesimal strain. Expressions
for strain will also be given that are valid for rotations and fractional length changes of arbitrary
34

magnitude; such expressions are called finite strain.
Two simple types of strain are extensional strain and shear strain. Consider a rectangular
parallelpiped, a brick-like block of material with mutually perpendicular planar faces, and let the
edges of the block be parallel to the 1, 2 and 3 axes. If we deform the block homogeneously, so
that each planar face moves perpendicular to itself and such that the faces remain orthogonal
(i.e., the parallelpiped is deformed into another rectangular parallelpiped), then we say that the
block has undergone extensional strain relative to each of the 1, 2 and 3 axes, but no shear strain
relative to these axes. Denote the edge lengths of the undeformed parallelpiped as X1, X2 and
X3, and those of the deformed parallelpiped as x1, x2 and x3; see Figure 8, where the
dashed-line figure represents the reference configuration and solid-line the deformed
configuration. Then the quantities 1 = x1/X1, 2 = x2/X2, and 3 = x3/X3 are called
stretch ratios. There are various ways that extensional strain can be defined in terms of them.
Note that the change in displacement in, say, the x1 direction between points at one end of the
block and those at the other is u1 = (1 – 1) X1. For example, if E11 denotes the extensional
strain along the x1 direction, then the most commonly understood definition of strain is
E11 = (change in length)/(initial length) = (x1 – X1)/ X1 = u1/ X1 = 1 – 1 .

Figure 8. Extensional strain; element in reference configuration shown with dashed
lines; 1 is the stretch ratio for a fiber initially oriented in the 1 direction.
A variety of other measures of extensional strain can be defined by E11 = g(1) where the
function g() satisfies g(1) = 0 and g´(1) = 1, so as to agree with the above definition when 1 is
M
based on the change of metric tensor,
very near 1. Two such in common use are the strain E11
L
and the logarithmic strain E11 :
M
L
E11
= ( 21  1) / 2, E11
= ln( 1) .

35

We say that the parallelpiped considered has undergone homogeneous strain if the strain of each
smaller parallelpiped that can be drawn within it has the same set of stretch ratios 1, 2, 3.
Thus, for the homogeneous extensional strain considered x1 = 1X1 + C1, x2 = 2X2 + C2, x3 =
3X3 + C3, where C1, C2 and C3 are constants.
To define a simple shear strain, consider the same rectangular parallelpiped but now deform
it so that every point on a plane of type X2 = constant moves only in the x1 direction, and by an
amount that increases linearly with X2. Thus the deformation x1 =  X2 + X1, x2 = X2, x3 = X3
defines a homogeneous simple shear strain of amount , and is illustrated in Figure 9. Note that
this strain causes no change of volume.

Figure 9. Simple shear strain; element in reference configuration shown with dashed lines.
For small strain we can identify the shear strain  as the change in angle between two initially
perpendicular lines. That is, choose a point and draw, in the undeformed configuration, two
small line elements from it, one in the direction of increasing X1 and the other of increasing X2.
The angle between the line elements as measured in radians is initially /2 but, when  <<1 ,
reduces to /2 – . (For finite simple shear strain as above,  would be replaced by arctan  in this
interpretation.)
Small strain tensor. To define the small strains, or infinitesimal strains, appropriate for
situations with ui / X j <<1 for all i and j, and for which we use the symbols ij, we can
proceed as follows: Two infinitesimal line segments, one initially in the 1 direction and the other
in the 2 direction, are shown in Figure 10 as dashed lines in the reference configuration and as
solid lines in the deformed configuration. Displacements are labeled so as to recognize that if ui
36

denotes a displacement of the point initially at (X1, X2, X3) then the corresponding displacement
should, for example, be denoted as ui + dX2 ui/X2 for the point which is initially an
infinitesimal distance away at (X1, X2 + dX2, X3). If the material fibers shown in the 1 and 2
directions did not rotate, then the strains defined from their fractional changes in length would be
exactly 11 = u1/X1 and 22 = u2/X2. These expressions remain correct, to the first order
accuracy in components of [u/X] sought at present, in the general case when the fibers do
rotate. The angle reduction between two fibers initially in the directions of increasing X1 and X2
is u2/X1 + u1/X2 to first order accuracy in [u/X], and this defines a shear strain which we
can call 12. For the shear strain denoted 12, however, we use half of 12. Thus, considering all

extensional and shear strains associated with infinitesimal fibers in the 1, 2 and 3 direction at a
point of the material, the set of strains is given by

 ij =

1  u j ui 
+


2  X i X j 

(i, j = 1, 2, 3) .

Note that this definition implies that  ij =  ji .

Figure 10. Deformation of line elements dX1 and dX2; origin of line elements has displaced
by u1 and u2, and extremities of the elements have displaced by slightly different
amounts, due to the displacement gradients ui / X j (presumed small for
purposes of this diagram, which is used to introduce infinitesimal strain ij).

37

Strain tensor transformation. The mode of definition of the  ij above confers on them the
property of being a second rank tensor. That is, if we chose Cartesian reference axes 1´, 2´, 3´
instead, and formed  kl , then  kl is related to the  ij by the same equations which relate the
stresses  kl
 to the  ij . That is
3

 kl = 

3



i =1 j =1

 ki  lj ij ,

which is the defining property of a second-rank tensor, where  kl = (1 / 2)(uk / x l + ul / x k ) .
In proving that the  kl do indeed transform according to such equation, the occasion will be
taken to get a little more familiarity with the summation convention, adopted in the rest of this
paragraph. Consider uk / xl and use the chain rule to write

uk / xl = (uk / x j )(x j / xl ) .
Since u and x are vectors, we know that uk =  kiui and xl =  lm xm , where the latter has the
inversion x j =  nj x n so that x j / xl =  lj . Thus the above expression becomes

uk / xl = (uk / x j )(x j / xl ) = ( kiui / x j )(lj ) =  ki ljui / x j
which shows, incidentally, that the uk / xl form a second-rank tensor. Now, the repeated i
and j are just summation (or "dummy") indices in the above expression, and we could replace
them with any other indices, say, p and q, to write equivalently uk / xl =  kp lq u p / xq . We
can use this to form the other term, ul / xk , needed in the strain expression, as

ul / xk =  lp kq u p / xq =  lj kiu j / xi =  ki lju j / x i
where, for the second equality, summation indices p and q have been traded, respectively, for j
and i. Thus, adding together the two last transformation expressions

(1 / 2)(uk / x l + ul / x k ) =  lj ki[(1 / 2)(ui / x j + u j / xi )]
which is the same as  kl =  lj ki ij .
Principal strains. We have thus proven that  ij is a second-rank tensor. It is also
38

symmetric,  ij =  ji . Paralleling the case for the stress tensor  ij , these mathematical features
require that there exist principal strain directions. That is, at every point of the strained
continuum it is possible to identify three mutually perpendicular directions along which there is
purely extensional strain, with no shear strain between these special directions. The directions
are the principal directions and we denote the corresponding strains, ordered algebraically, as I,
II, and III; these include the least and greatest extensional strains experienced by fibers through
the material point considered. While developed here within small (infinitesimal) strain analysis,
the result on the existence of mutually perpendicular principal directions, relative to which there
is extensional strain but no shear strain, applies at finite strain too. In general, for a fiber with
o
orientation along the direction of the unit vector n in the reference configuration, the
exensional strain, according to the small strain measure  ij now considered, is

=

3

3

 

i=1 j =1

nio noj  ij

Invariants of the strain tensor  ij may be defined in a way paralleling those for the stress tensor.

Figure 11. Mohr circle for strain transformation in a plane.
Mohr circle for strain transformation in a plane. Since the same transformation equations
39

apply as for stress, there must be a Mohr circle for strain transformation in a plane. This is
illustrated in Figure 11. An infinitesimal element in the form of a cube of side dL is shown in
the undeformed reference configuration. One of its faces is perpendicular to e 3 but the others
have been rotated by  anticlockwise about that vector, so that the orthogonal unit vectors s and
n shown, rather than e1 and e 2 , are perpendicular to the other cube faces. Extensional strain  n
parallel to n and shear strain  ns , defined as an angle reduction between the s and n directions,
are marked on the deformed sketch of the element. We recall that the tensor component of shear
strain is  ns /2, so that the Mohr circle will apply in terms of axes labelled  n and  ns /2. The
simplest route to construction of the circle is to recognize that we know the Mohr coordinate
locations ( n ,  ns / 2) along the circle, in terms of the given  ij , when  = 0 and when  = /2.
The extremities of the Mohr circle mark the maximum and minimum in-plane strains, obtained
respectively in the n and s directions when those are oriented such that  =  , where 2 is
defined in Figure 11.
Strain compatibility. An important fact to note is that the strains cannot vary in an arbitrary
manner from point to point in the body. That is because the six strain components are all
derivable from three displacement components. Restrictions on strain resulting from such
considerations are called compatibility relations; the body would not fit together after
deformation unless they were satisfied. Consider, for example, a state of plane strain in the 1, 2
plane (so that 33 = 23 = 31 = 0). The three non-zero strains, 11 = u1/X1 , 12 = (1/2)

(u2/X1 + u1/X2) and 22 = u2/X2, are in this case derivable from the two displacements u1
and u2. So those strains cannot vary arbitrarily from point to point but must satisfy some single
equation of constraint. In this case (plane strain) that equation of constraint , or compatibility
equation, is
2 11 / X22 + 2  22 / X12 = 22 12 / X1 X 2

as may be verified by directly inserting the relations for strains in terms of displacements.
In the general 3D case, the strain compatibility equations are the set
2

2

2

2

 ij / X k Xl +   kl / Xi X j =   ik / X j Xl +   jl / Xi X k .
These comprise 81 equations, but most are identities (all cases when 3 or more of i, j,k,l are
identical) or replications of one another. In the end we have 6 equations. Three of them,
40

resulting when i = j , k = l , but i  k , have the same form of that written for plane strain above
(which corresponds to i = j = 1 and k = l = 2 ). The other three, resulting when i = j but i  k ,
i  l and k  l have the form (e.g., corresponding to i = j = 1 , k = 2, l = 3)
2
 11 / X2 X3 = (12 / X3   23 / X1 +  31 / X 2 ) / X1 .

These 6 equations are not completely independent of one another, in that we have,
fundamentally, need for only three constraints (six strains derivable from three displacements).
Small strain analysis. When the smallness of stretch and rotation of line elements allows use
of the infinitesimal strain tensor, a derivative /Xi will be very nearly identical to /xi.
Frequently, but not always, it will then be acceptable to ignore the distinction between the
deformed and undeformed configurations in writing the governing equations of solid mechanics.
For example, the differential equations of motion in terms of stress are rigorously correct only
with derivatives relative to the deformed configuration but, in the circumstances considered, the
equations of motion can be written relative to the undeformed configuration. This is what is
done in the most widely used variant of solid mechanics, in the form of the theory of linear
elasticity. The procedure can go badly wrong in some important cases, like for columns under
compressive loadings so that buckling occurs, or for elastic-plastic materials when the slope of
the stress versus strain relation is of the same order as existing stresses; these cases are best
approached through finite deformation theory.
Finite deformation and strain tensors. The theory of finite deformations, with extension
and rotations of line elements being unrestricted as to size, contains the small strain formulation
as a limiting case. Consider an infinitesimal fiber through the point considered which is,
initially, given as the vector dX. If that fiber deforms at the time considered to the vector dx
then, defining Fij = xi (X, t) / X j , we can write
dx i =

3

 Fij dX j
j=1

The 3 by 3 matrix [F], with components Fij, is called the deformation gradient; the Fij transform
as the components of a second rank tensor when we change from one set of Cartesian reference
axes to another. Two special types of [F] are of interest, and the most general [F] can be
composed of the two of them. The first type is a rigid rotation, [F] = [R] where [R] has the same
41

properties as an orthogonal transformation matrix []. When [F] = [R], each dx has the same
length as the corresponding dX, and the angle between two line elements dX and dX is the
same as between dx  and dx  . The other special type of [F] is [F] = [U] where the components
Uij of [U] are symmetric, Uij = Uji , and det[U] > 0; [U] corresponds to a pure deformation. It is
possible to show that when [F] = [U], there exist three special, mutually orthogonal directions,
called principal directions, with the property that if dX lies along one of these directions, then so
does dx. Thus fibers in these three special directions do not rotate during the deformation; and
there is no shearing deformation between them. Further these fibers include the fibers with the
least and greatest stretch ratios, denoted I and III, respectively, among all fibers through the
point considered.
It may be shown that a general deformation gradient [F] may be represented as a pure
deformation followed by a rigid rotation; this result is called the polar decomposition theorem,
and takes the form, in matrix notation [F] = [R][U]. Thus, for an arbitrary deformation, there
exist three mutually orthogonal principal stretch directions at each point of the material; call
these directions in the reference configuration N(I), N(II), N(III) and let the stretch ratios be I,
II, III. Fibers in these three principal directions undergo extensional strain but have no
shearing between them. The three fibers in the deformed configuration remain orthogonal but
are rotated by the operation [R] relative to their orientation in the reference configuration.
Recall that an extensional strain may be defined by E = g() where g() is any function
satisfying g(1) = 0 and g´(1) = 1, with examples for g() given above. We may then define a
finite strain Eij based on any particular function g() by
(II) (II)
(III ) (III)
Eij = g(  I )Ni(I) N (I)
Nj ,
j + g(  II )Ni N j + g( III )Ni

and any Eij so defined may readily be shown to transform according to the law defining a
second-rank tensor.
Usually, it is rather difficult to actually solve for the ’s and N’s associated with any general
[F] (= [x/X]), so it is not easy to use this strain definition. However, for the special choice
identified as gM() = (2 – 1)/2 above, it may be shown that


1 3
M
Eij =   FkiFkj   ij
2  k=1
	
42

Remembering that xi = Xi + ui , so that Fij = xi / X j = ij + ui / X j , we may show that
M

Eij =

3 u
1  ui u j
u 

+
+  k k
2  X j Xi k =1Xi X j 

which, like the finite strain generated by any other g(), reduces to ij when uk / Xl <<1 so
that we need retain only the linear terms.
M

To illustrate the summation convention and comma notation, the last two expressions for Eij
M

could instead be written as Eij = (1 / 2)(FkiFkj   ij ) = (1 / 2)(ui , j +u j ,i +uk ,i uk , j ) , but where
here we must explain that G, i corresponds to G / Xi , not to G / xi .
It is sometimes convenient to think in terms of lines in the material, parallels to the 1, 2 and 3
axes, being carried along, or convected, with the deformation, so that the labels X1, X2, X3
correspond to the labeling of a system of curvilinear coordinates, convected with the
deformation. This viewpoint was introduced by Hencky in 1925. When the square of the length
of an infinitesimal line element is written as a quadratic form in the corresponding increments of
curvilinear reference coordinates, the coefficients in the quadratic form are called the metric
M
tensor gij . Thus, observing that the Eij appear in the equation
dx  dx =

  ( ij + 2EijM ) dXi dX j ,
3

3

i =1 j =1

M

M

we can identify gij with ij + 2Eij , so that 2Eij is the change in metric tensor of the convected
M

coordinates in going from the reference to deformed configuration. The strain Eij is also
known as the Green strain or the Lagrangian strain.
Some Comments on Work and Energy
Virtual work. Consider a solid in its deformed configuration at some time t and let u =
u(x) be some virtual, or imagined, infinitesimal displacement field. Using the various equations
derived from the linear and angular momentum principles above we may derive the Principle of
Virtual Work, namely that
43

S

T  u dS +  (f  a) u dV = 
V

V

3

3

   ij ij dV

i =1 j =1

where

ij =

1  (ui ) (u j ) 
+


xi 	
2  x j

is the infinitesimal strain, as measured from the deformed configuration of the solid at time t,
associated with the virtual displacement field.
If we assume that ij = ji and that the Principle of Virtual Work holds for all possible
continuous fields u of virtual displacement and compatible strains [], then it may be shown
that all of the equations derived from the linear momentum principle are implied. The form of
the principle here is an extension of what John Bernoulli introduced in 1717 for systems such as
interconnected rigid bodies with frictionless joints, but reduces to his form when we consider
only virtual displacements which are consistent with rigidity, so that the stress working terms of
type  ij  ij vanish. The virtual work principle is usually taken as the preferred formulation in
developing the finite-element method of computational solid mechanics analysis discussed
earlier.
If we let u be the actual displacement field throughout the solid over some infinitesimal
time increment t at t. Then, writing u/t = v and Dij = (1/ 2)(vi / x j + v j / xi ) ( Dij is called
the deformation rate tensor), there follows the work-energy relation

S

T v dS +  f  vdV =
V

3 3
d 1

v

v
dV
+

V   ij Dij dV .
dt V 2
i=1 j =1

This shows that the rate of work of volume and surface forces equals the rate of change of kinetic
energy when the solid moves as a rigid body (i.e., when each Dij = 0), but not when the solid
deforms.
First law of thermodynamics. The first law of thermodynamics has a similar form,

44

d

1

S (T v  qn ) dS + V (f  v + r) dV = dt V  (e + 2 v v)dV
where e is the internal energy per unit mass, qn dS is the rate at which heat flows out through
area dS the surface of the region considered, and r dV is the rate of heat supply by radiation to
the volume dV. It then follows that
3

  qn dS +  (r + 
S

V

3

  ij Dij )dV = V  de / dt

i =1 j =1

dV

where de/dt is a derivative following the motion. From this equation we can show (consider a
tetrahedron, size approaching zero) that the heat outflow at a place on the surface with normal n
has the form qn = n q , where we call q the heat flux vector. Also, by requiring the expression
to hold for an arbitrary region, one concludes that
3

3

  qi / xi + r + 
i =1

3

  ij Dij =  de / dt

i =1 j =1

which is the local form of the first law of thermodynamics. This justifies an interpretation of the
summation involving  ij Dij as the rate of stress working per unit volume.
Stress-Strain Relations
Linear elastic isotropic solid. The simplest case is that of the linear elastic solid, considered
in circumstances for which ui / X j <<1 and distinctions between the deformed and
undeformed configurations are neglected in writing equations of motion or of equilibrium.
Consider first the case of isotropic materials, whose mechanical response is independent of the
direction of stressing. If a material point sustains a stress state 11 = , with all other ij = 0, it
is subjected to uniaxial tensile stress. This can be realized in a homogeneous bar loaded by an
axial force. We then will expect extensional strain 11 to develop in the direction of the stress,
but that there will be no shearing relative to the 1, 2, 3 axes, and that negative extensional strains
will develop in directions transverse to the tension. Hence we may write the strain in response to
uniaxial tension 11 =  as
11 = /E , 22 = 33 = –11 = –/E , 12 = 23 = 31 = 0
45

Two new parameters have been introduced here, E and . The first, E is called Young’s modulus
and it has dimensions of [Force]/[Length]2 and is measured in units such as Pa ( = Pascal = 1
N/m2), or dyne/cm2, or psi (pounds per square inch). The second, , is dimensionless and is
called the Poisson ratio. More generally, if stresses of type 11, 22 and 33 are applied, no
shear strains are produced and we can write the extensional strains as the sum of responses to
each stress individually (because the material is linear):
11 = 11/E –  (22 + 33)/E , 22 = 22/E –  (33 + 11)/E ,
33 = 33/E –  (11 + 22)/E .
If the isotropic solid is subjected only to shear stress, 12 = 21 = , with all other ij = 0,
then the response is shearing strain of the same type,
12 = /2G , 23 = 31 = 11 = 22 = 33 = 0 .
Notice that because 212 = 12, this is equivalent to 12 = /G. The constant G introduced is
called the shear modulus. Frequently, the symbol μ is used instead for it. If shear stresses of all
types are applied the shear strains are
12 = 12/2G, 23 = 23/2G, 31 = 31/2G
but none of the shear stresses cause extensional strains.
Relation of G to E and . It is now clear that the strain response to a completely general
stress state is given by this last set of equations and those for normal stress application above.
However, the shear modulus G is not independent of E and , but is related to them by
G = E / [2(1+  )] .

This can be seen from the following arguments, presented in two ways because both are
instructive. First consider the solid under stress 12 = 21 = , producing strain 12 = 21 = /2G.
Now suppose we look at the same loading relative to a new set of axes 1´,2´,3´ produced by
rotating the original set by /4 (45 °) about the 3 axis so that 3 and 3´ coincide but 1´ is rotated
away from 1, halfway towards 2, and 2´ away from 2, halfway towards negative 1. By the laws
46

of transformation discussed earlier, we calculate that our assumed stress and strain state is
equivalent to
11 = , 22 = –, all other  kl = 0
 11 = /2G,  22 = –/2G, all other kl  = 0
Since the material is isotropic, the response to normal stresses described above must also apply
relative to the 1´, 2´, 3´ axes, and thus it is necessary that
 11 = 11/E –  22/E , and hence that /2G = /E + /E

from which we see that G = E/[2 (1+)].
For the second mode of derivation, suppose that we had chosen axes 1´, 2´, 3´ to coincide
 contain no
with the principal directions of stress at the point considered, so that the stresses  kl
shear components. The principal axes of strain will align with those of stress when the material
is isotropic, so that the strains  kl likewise contain no shear component. Thus stress-strain
relations will involve only  and . For example,
 11 = 11/E – ( 22 +  33)/E = (1 + ) 11/E – (11 +  22 +  33)/E

Noting the last rearrangement, we see that the proper relation between all components of stress
and strain along principal axes, for which shears vanish, is
 kl = (1 + ) kl/E –  kl( 11 +  22 +  33)/E

 is the analog, on the 1´, 2´, 3´ axis system, to the ij on the 1, 2, 3 system; both are
where kl
defined as 1 when their indices agree and 0 otherwise. Using a property of the orthogonal
transformation matrix [], it may be observed that
3

kl
 =   ki li =
i=1

3 3

   kiljij ,

i=1 j =1

so that the kl
 relate to the ij by the same transformation rule of a second rank tensor which
relates the  kl
 to the  ij and the  kl to the  ij . If we apply the inverse of that transformation to
both sides of the above stress-strain relations on the 1´, 2´, 3´ system, and remember that the sum
47

of normal stresses is invariant to choice of axes, we conclude that for every choice of coordinate
axes the stress-strain relations are
ij = (1 + )ij /E –  ij (11 + 22 + 33)/E .
This confirms that 12 = (1 + )12/E and hence also demonstrates that G = E/[2(1 + )]. Along
the way, we have seen the working of an important concept: The laws of physics can be
formulated as relations between tensors (not necessarily second order tensors, as they are in this
case) and have the same form in all coordinate systems.
Other constants. The linear elastic stress-strain relations can be inverted to read
ij = ij (11 + 22 + 33) + 2μij
where here we have used μ rather than G as the notation for the shear modulus, following
convention, and where  = 2μ/(1 – 2). The elastic constants  and μ are sometimes called the
Lamé constants. Since  is typically in the range 1/4 to 1/3 for hard polycrystalline solids,  falls
often in the range between μ and 2μ. (Navier’s particle model with central forces leads to  = μ
for an isotropic solid.)
Another elastic modulus often cited is the bulk modulus K, defined for a linear solid under
pressure p (11 = 22 = 33 = –p) such that the fractional decrease in volume is p/K. If we
consider a small cube of side length L in the reference state, observe that shearing strain does not
change volume, and that the length along, say, the 1 direction changes to (1 + 11)L, we see that
the fractional change of volume is
(1 + 11)(1 + 22)(1 + 33) – 1 = 11 + 22 + 33 ,
neglecting quadratic and cubic order terms in the ij compared to linear, as appropriate when
using linear elasticity. Thus K = E/[3(1 – 2)] =  + 2μ/3.
Thermal strains. Temperature change can also cause strain. In an isotropic material the
thermally induced extensional strains are equal in all directions, and there are no shear strains. In
the simplest cases, we can treat these thermal strains as being linear in the temperature change, 
– 0 (where 0 is the temperature of the reference state) writing
48

 thermal
=  ij  ( –  0)
ij
for the strain produced by temperature change in the absence of stress. Here  is called the
coefficient of thermal expansion. We now regard the strain expressed above, in terms of stress,
mech
mech
+  ijthermal . Thus, in cases of
as the mechanical part of the strain,  ij , with  ij =  ij
thermal

temperature change, we replace  ij in the stress-strain relations above with  ij   ij

, with

the thermal part given as a function of temperature. Typically, when temperature changes are
modest, we can neglect the small dependence of E and  on temperature.
Anisotropy. Anisotropic solids are also common in nature and technology. Examples are:
single crystals; polycrystals in which the grains are not completely random in their
crystallographic orientation but have a “texture”, typically due to some plastic or creep flow
process which has left a preferred grain orientation; fibrous biological materials like wood or
bone; and composite materials which, on a microscale, have the structure of reinforcing fibers in
a matrix, with fibers oriented in a single direction or in multiple directions (e.g., to ensure
strength along more than a single direction), or may have the structure of a lamination of thin
layers of separate materials. In the most general case the application of any of the six
components of stress induces all six components of strain, and there is no shortage of elastic
constants. There would seem to be 6  6 = 36 in the most general case but, as will be seen, a
consequence of the laws of thermodynamics is that the maximum number of independent elastic
constants is 21 (compared to 2 for isotropic solids). In many cases of practical interest, symmetry
considerations reduce the number to far below 21. Crystals of cubic symmetry, like rocksalt
(NaCl), or face-centered-cubic metals such as aluminum, copper, or gold, or body-centered-cubic
metals like iron at low enough temperature or tungsten, or non-metals such as diamond,
germanium or silicon, have only 3 independent elastic constants. Also solids with a special
direction, and with identical properties along any direction perpendicular to that direction, are
called transversely isotropic, and have 5 independent elastic constants. Examples are provided
by fiber-reinforced composite materials, with fibers that are randomly emplaced but aligned in a
single direction in an isotropic, or transversely isotropic, matrix, and by single crystals of
hexagonal-close-packing such as zinc.
General linear elastic stress strain relations have the form

49

3

 ij = 

3

 C 
k = 1 l = 1 ijkl kl

where, because the kl are symmetric, we can write Cijkl = Cijlk, and because the ij are

symmetric, Cijkl = Cjikl. Hence the 3  3  3  3 = 81 components of Cijkl reduce to the 6  6
= 36 mentioned, which thermodynamics further reduces. In cases of temperature change, we
thermal
thermal
=  ij(   o ) and ij is the set of thermal strain
replace  ij with  ij   ij
where  ij
coefficients, with ij = ji.
An alternative matrix notation is sometimes employed, especially in the literature on single
crystals. That approach introduces 6-element columns of stress and strain {} and {}, defined
so that the columns, when transposed (super-script T) or laid out as rows, are
{}T = (11, 22, 33, 12, 23, 31)
{}T = (11, 22, 33, 212, 223, 231).
These forms assure that the scalar {}T{d} is an increment of stress working per unit volume.
The stress-strain relations are then written {} = [c]{} where [c] is the 6 by 6 matrix of elastic
moduli. Thus, c13 = C1133, c15 = C1123, c44 = C1212, c42 = C1222, etc. The thermodynamic
requirement as explained below is that [c] be a symmetric matrix.
For isotropic elastic materials the independent constants may be chosen as any two of c11 (=
 + 2μ), c12 (= ), and c44 (= μ). In solids of cubic symmetry they are chosen and tabulated in
many materials data sources as c11, c12 and c44. For solids that are transversely isotropic about
the 1 axis, the independent constants are c11, c12, c22, c23, c44 and, for example, others are given
by c55 = c22 – c23, c21 = c12, etc. Sometimes elastic compliances, corresponding to elements of
[c]-1, the matrix inverse of [c], appearing as {} = [c]-1{} are given.
Thermodynamic considerations; second law. Thermodynamic principles constrain stressstrain relations for elastic materials as follows. The most primitive notion of elasticity is that
stress is a function of strain and of temperature . (For rigorous theory applicable to arbitrarily
large rotations and to however large stretches the solid can sustain while still remaining elastic,
we modify this to say that the six stresses ij are functions of the nine deformation gradients Fij,
and of temperature.) We need only consider states of spatially homogeneous deformation and
temperature, since we have tacitly assumed that the local relation between stress, strain and
50

temperature is the same as for such homogeneous states. In thermodynamic terminology, a state
of purely elastic material response corresponds to an equilibrium state, and a process during
which there is purely elastic response corresponds to a sequence of equilibrium states and hence
to a reversible process. Then, the second law of thermodynamics assures us that the heat
absorbed per unit mass can be written  ds where  is thermodynamic (absolute) temperature and
s is the entropy per unit mass. Hence, writing the work per unit volume of reference
configuration in a manner appropriate to cases when infinitesimal strain can be used, and letting
o be the density in that configuration, we have from the first law of thermodynamics that
3

 o ds + 

3

  d = ode
k = 1 l = 1 ij ij

This relation shows that if we express internal energy e as a function of entropy s and strains [],
and if we write e so as to depend identically on ij and ji, then
ij = o e([], s)/ij
Alternatively, we may introduce the Helmholtz free energy ƒ per unit mass, ƒ = e – s = ƒ([], ),
and show that
ij = o ƒ([], )/ij
The later form corresponds to the variables with which the stress-strain relations were written
above. Sometimes oƒ is called the strain energy for states of isothermal (constant ) elastic
deformation; oe has the same interpretation for isentropic (s = constant) elastic deformation,
achieved when the time sale is too short to allow heat transfer to or from a deforming element.
Since the mixed partial derivatives must be independent of order, a consequence of the last
equation is that
ij([], )/kl = kl ([], )/ij,
which requires that Cijkl = Cklij, or equivalently that the matrix [c] be symmetric, [c] = [c]T,
reducing the maximum possible number of independent elastic constraints from 36 to 21. At
constant temperature o, the strain energy W([]) = ƒ([], o) = (1/2) {}T[c]{}.

51

Isothermal versus isentropic response. The Cijkl = 02ƒ([], )/ij kl are elastic moduli
for isothermal response. Let Cijkl = 02e([], s)/ij kl be the corresponding moduli for
isentropic response. Reasoning from the first and second laws as embodied in eq. (xx), it follows
that
C ijkl = Cijkl + ( o /  o c )  ij  kl ,

3

3

where  pq=   C pqrs rs ;
r=1 s=1

here c =  os([ ],  ) /  , evaluated at  =  o and [ ] = [0] , and gives the specific heat at
constant strain in the reference configuration. In the case of the elastically isotropic material, it
is most convenient to give results in terms of G and K, the isothermal shear and bulk moduli.
We find that the isentropic moduli are
2

G = G, K = K (1 + 9   K  /  c ) .

The shear modulus is unchanged and the fractional change in bulk modulus, given by the second
term in the parenthesis, is very small, typically of the order of 1% or less even for metals and
ceramics of relatively high , of order 10-5/degree Kelvin. The fractional change in absolute
temperature during an isentropic deformation is found to involve the same small parameter:
[( –  o)/ o]s = const = – (9  o K  2 /  o c ) [( 11 +  22 +  33) / 3o ]

Values of  for most solid elements and inorganic compounds are in the range 10–6 to 4  10–5 /
degree Kelvin, and room temperature is around 300 Kelvin, so 3o is typically in the range 10-3
to 4  10-2. Thus, even if the fractional change in volume is of the order of 1%, which is quite
large for a metal or ceramic deforming in its elastic range, the fractional change in absolute
temperature is only of order 1%.
For those reasons, it is usually appropriate to neglect the alteration of the temperature field
due to elastic deformation, and hence to use purely mechanical formulations of elasticity in
which distinctions between isentropic and isothermal response are neglected. Temperature
changes, inducing thermal strains, are then considered only as specified quantities, perhaps
calculated from considerations of heat transfer, but in a manner that is de coupled from the
elastic deformation of the solid. The same approach will not always be adequate when
significant non-elastic deformation occurs (a metal wire that is flexed back and forth in the
52

plastic range gets noticeably warm), or in the presence of strong shock waves, or when we wish
to consider what it is that ultimately damps free vibrations of a solid under conditions for which
there is negligible inelastic deformation, or resistance from surrounding fluids, or frictional slip
at support points. The latter point refers to thermoelastic dissipation due to small fluctuating
heat conduction currents that act to level-out small temperature fluctuations due to tendencies
towards locally isentropic response in a vibrating solid. In order to deal with coupled thermal
and mechanical phenomena, we must add to our set of governing equations the local form of the
first law of thermodynamics, as on page xx above, expressing the heat flux within it by
3

qi =   kij  / x j where the conductivities [k]
j =1

must, according to the second law of thermodynamics, form a positive definite matrix.
Finite elastic deformations. When we deal with elastic response under arbitrary deformation
gradients, because rotations, if not strains, are large or, in a material such as rubber, because the
strains are large too, it is necessary to dispense with the infinitesimal strain theory. Instead, the
first and second laws of thermodynamics, combined as on page 36, have the form
3

ods + det[ F]

3

3

 

i =1 j =1 k =1

Fij1 jkdFki =  ode .

1

Here the Fij are components of [F]–1, which is the matrix inverse of [F]. Also, det[F] – 1 is the
fractional change in volume, from the reference to the deformed configuration, so that mass
conservation requires that  = o / det[F]. It may be noted that the form written for the stress
working here incorporates no assumption that ij = ji, and hence may be considered an equation
that is conceptually independent of the angular momentum principle.
For elastic response in this context, the free energy ƒ = e – s is a function of [F] and , ƒ =
ƒ([F], ), and there results
3

 ij =   Fikf ([F],  ) / Fjk
k =1

for the general form of elastic stress-deformation gradient relations. If we have deformed a
parcel of material by [F] and then give it some additional rigid rotation, we would insist that the
free energy be unchanged in that rotation. In terms of the polar decomposition [F] = [R][U], this
53

is equivalent to saying that ƒ is independent of the rotation part [R] or [F]. Thus ƒ depends only
on the pure deformation [U], which is equivalent to saying that ƒ depends on the Fij only as they
appear in components of [F]T[F] (=[U][U]). This is equivalent to saying that ƒ is a function of
the finite strain measure [EM] based on change of metric or, for that matter, on any member of
the family of material strain tensor discussed. Let us, then assume that ƒ is a function of [EM]
and , ƒ = ƒ ([EM], ). In that case we may show that
3

 ij = (  /  o ) 

3



k =1 l=1

Fik FjlSkl([E M ],  ) ,

where Skl (= Slk) is sometimes called the second Piola-Kirchhoff stress, and is given by
M
,
Skl =  o f ([E M ],  ) / E kl
M
M
it being assumed that ƒ has been written so as to have identical dependence on Ekl
and Elk
.
This shows that ij = ji, so that the assumption on invariance of the free energy to rigid rotation

makes the angular momentum principle redundant in this case.
Inelastic response. The above mode of expressing [] in terms of [S] is valid for solids
showing viscoelastic or plastic response as well, except that [S] is then to be regarded not only as
a function of the present [EM] and , but to depend on the prior history of both. Assuming that
such materials show elastic response to sudden stress changes, or to small unloading from a
plastically deforming state, we may still express [S] as a derivative of f, as above, but the
derivative is understood as being with respect to an elastic variation of strain and is to be taken at
fixed  and with fixed prior inelastic deformation and temperature history. Such dependence on
history is sometimes represented as a dependence of f on internal state variables whose laws of
evolution are part of the inelastic constitutive description. There are also simpler models of
plastic or viscoelastic response and the most commonly employed forms for isotropic solids are
presented next.
Plasticity and creep. To a good approximation, plastic deformation of crystalline solids
causes no change in volume, and hydrostatic changes in stress, amounting to equal change of all
normal stresses, have no effect on plastic flow, at least for changes that are of the same order or
magnitude as the strength of the solid in shear. Thus plastic response can be formulated in terms
of deviatoric stress , defined by ij = ij – ij (11 + 22 + 33)/3 . This stress has a zero first
54

invariant and thus, in isotropic materials, plastic flow must be controlled by its second and third
invariants. Following von Mises, in a procedure which is found to agree moderately well with
experiment, the plastic flow relation is formulated in terms of the second invariant of deviatoric
stress. That invariant is commonly rewritten as  , called the equivalent tensile
stress, where
3

 2 = (3 / 2)

3

  ij ji .

i =1 j=1

The definition is arranged so that for a state of uniaxial tension,  equals the tensile stress, and
the stress-strain relation for general stress states is formulated in terms of data from the tensile
p
test. In particular, a plastic strain  in a uniaxial tension test is defined from  p =    / E ,
where here  is interpreted as the strain in the tensile test according to the logarithmic definition,
 = ln  , and the elastic modulus E is assumed to remain unchanged with deformation; also, in
the situations considered  / E << 1.
Thus in the rate-independent plasticity version of the theory, tensile data (or compressive,
with appropriate sign reversals) from a monotonic load test is assumed to define a function
 p ( ) . In the viscoplastic or high-temperature creep versions of the theory, tensile data is
interpreted to define d p / dt as a function of  in the simplest case representing, for example,
p

secondary creep, and as a function of  and  in theories intended to represent transient creep
effects or rate-sensitive response at lower temperatures.
Rigid-plastic model. Consider first the rigid-plastic material model in which elastic
deformability is ignored altogether, as sometimes appropriate for problems of large plastic flow
as in metal forming or long term creep in the Earth’s mantle, or for analysis of plastic collapse
loads on structures. Then the rate of deformation [D] can be equated to what we will shortly
p
consider to be its plastic part [ D ]. Following Levy, in an idea that would be said, since the
formalization of the mathematical theory of plasticity starting in the early 1950’s, to embody an
p
associated flow rule with normality of [ D ] to surfaces of form  = constant in a stress hyperp
space, one assumes that [ D ] is distributed among its components just as is [], so that
p

Dij = (3 ij / 2 )d p / dt

(i,j = 1,2,3).

p
The numerical factors secure agreement between D11
and d p / dt for uniaxial tension in the 1
55

direction. Also, the equation implies that
p
p
p
D11
+ D22
+ D33
=0,

which implies incompressibility of plastic flow, and that
3

(d / dt) = (2 / 3) 
p

2

3



i =1 j =1

Dijp Dpji ,

which must be integrated over previous history to get 
p
which d p / dt is a function of  and  .

p

as required for viscoplastic models in

p

Since  is defined as a function of [], this formulation expresses [ D ] as a function of [],,
p
and possibly of the previous [], history, in its viscoplastic version. It expresses [ D ] as an
explicit function of [], and d[],/dt in its rate-independent plasticity version, since then one has
p
d p / dt = [d p ( ) / d ]d / dt . In the rate-independent version, we define [ D ] as zero
whenever  is less than the highest value that it has attained in the previous history, or when the
current value of  is the highest value but d  /dt < 0. (In the elastic-plastic context, this means
that “unloading” involves only elastic response.) In the case of the ideally-plastic solid, which is
idealized to be able to flow without increase of stress when  equals the yield strength level, we
regard d p / dt as an undetermined but necessarily non-negative parameter, which can be
determined (sometimes not uniquely) only through the complete solution of a solid mechanics
boundary value problem.
Elastic-plastic model, co-rotational stress rate. The elastic-plastic material model is then
formulated by writing
e

p

Dij = Dij + Dij

where [D p] is given in terms of stress and possibly stress rate just as explained above, and where
the elastic deformation rates [D e] are related to stresses by the usual linear elastic expression,
e

Dij =

1 + * 
*
*
*
˙ ij  ij (˙11
+ ˙ 22 + ˙ 33)
E
E

(i,j = 1,2,3).

56

Here the stress rates are expressed as the Jaumann co-rotational rates

˙ *ij = ˙ ij +

3



k=1

( ik kj  ik kj ) ;

where ˙ ij = dij/dt is a derivative following the motion of a material point, and the spin ij is
defined by

 ij = (1 / 2)(vi / x j  v j / xi ) .
*
The co-rotational stress rates ˙ ij are those calculated by an observer who spins with the average

angular velocity of a material element. The elastic part of the stress strain relation should be
consistent with the existence of a free energy f as discussed above. This is not strictly satisfied
by the form just given, but the differences between it and one which is consistent in that way
*
involves additional terms which are of order  / E times the ˙ ij . These are quite negligible in
typical cases in which the theory is used, since  / E is usually an extremely small fraction of
unity, say, 10–4 to 10–2. A small-strain version of the theory is in common use for purposes of
elastic-plastic stress analysis. In that one replaces [D] with [ (X, t)] / t , where [] is the small
*
strain tensor,  /x with  /X in all equations, and [˙ ] with [ (X, t)] / t . The last two steps
cannot always be justified even in cases of very small strain if, for example, in the case of a rateindependent material, d / d p is not large compared to  , or, just as is a concern for buckling
problems in purely elastic solids, if rates of rotation of material fibers are much larger than rates
of stretching.
Linear viscoelasticity. Here the focus is on situations for which the small strain tensor may
be used. This excludes viscoelastic liquids, for which a treatment more in the spirit of that above
for large plastic flow is necessary. Consider a bar under uniaxial stress  and let  be its strain.
In the creep test the stress  is applied and subsequently maintained constant. The strain is then
denoted  =  C(t) where C(t) is called the creep compliance
and
corresponds to 1/E for a
purely elastic solid; C(0+) = 1/Eu and, if the limit exists, C(  ) = 1/Er , where Eu and Er (< Eu )
are, respectively, the unrelaxed and relaxed elastic moduli. Also, dC(t)/dt > 0 for all finite t.
The complementary test, in which a strain  is applied and subsequently maintained constant, is
called the relaxation test, and the resulting stress can be written as  =  R(t). Here R(t) is the
relaxation function; R(0+) = Eu and R(  ) = Er ; also, dR(t)/dt < 0 for all finite t. The
Boltzmann superposition then represents response in a general loading history, starting at t = 0,
57

by
either of the equivalent forms
t

t

 (t) = 0 C(t  s) d (s) / ds ds or  (t) = 0 R(t  s) d (s) / ds ds
Such convolutions will subsequently be denoted as  = C* and  = R*
The C(t) and R(t) are often approximated by solutions of the first order differential equation
introduced by Jeffreys in 1929 and defining a standard linear solid,

Td / dt +  = TEu d / dt + Er 
where, in different circumstances, either T or T Eu / Er is called a relaxation time. The Maxwell
model, first introduced in the hope of describing viscoelastic phenomena in gases, is given by
setting Er = 0 and writing Eu = E, so that C(t) = (1 + t / T) / E and R(t) = E exp(–t / T). It is a
special case of the elastic-plastic law of secondary creep type, discussed above, in which
d p / dt =  / TE , and has the mechanical analog of a spring and viscous dashpot element in
series. The Kelvin model is obtained by letting Eu   and T  0 in such a way that T Eu / Er
remains bounded. It has the analog of a spring and dashpot in parallel, and allows no long-term
permanent deformation. A weakness is that it precludes instantaneous elastic response, but it can
nevertheless be useful in modeling the damping of vibrations.
For the tensorial generalization in an isotropic material, it is simplest to consider the separate
response to pure shear stress and to pure hydrostatic stress, introducing creep compliance
functions S(t) and B(t) that correspond, respectively, to 1/G and 1/K . Thus if shear strain  =
 S(t) is the response to a step loading by shear stress  , and if – p B(t) is the fractional change
in volume in response to a step loading by hydrostatic pressure p , then the general stress-strain
relations may be written as ij = (1/2) S*ij + (1/9) ij B*(11+22+33) where ij is the
deviatoric stress. In many cases the time dependence of B(t) is negligible compared to that of
S(t) and one can just replace B*(11+22+33) by (11+22+33)/K .

SOME PROBLEMS INVOLVING ELASTIC RESPONSE
Equations of linear elasticity, mechanical theory. The final equations of the purely
58

mechanical theory of linear elasticity (i.e., when we neglect coupling with the temperature field)
and assume either isothermal or adiabatic response, with elastic moduli identified appropriately,
are obtained as follows. We use the stress strain relations, given in the general case as on page
xx write the strains in terms of displacement gradients as on page xx, and insert the final
expressions for stress into the equations of motion given on page xx, replacing /x with /X in
those equations, to obtain
3 3
2u j
 
uk 
 X    Cijkl X  + f j =  t 2 ( j = 1, 2, 3) .
l	
i =1 i  k=1 l=1
3

Throughout this section we now use xi and Xi interchangeably. In the case of an isotropic and
homogeneous solid, the equations of motion reduce to the Navier equations
3 2u
2u j
  3 uk 
j
( + μ )
( j = 1, 2, 3) ,

	 +μ
2 + fj = 
X j  k =1 X k 	

t 2
k =1 Xk

which can be restated in the concise vector notation
( + μ)(  u) + μ 2 u + f =  2u / t 2 ,
3


2
and  is the Laplacian operator defined by    . Such equations hold in
i =1 Xi
the region V occupied by the solid; on the surface S one prescribes each component of u, or each
component of T (expressed in terms of [u/X]), or sometimes mixtures of components or
relations between them. For example, along a freely slipping planar interface with a rigid solid,
the normal component of u and the two tangential components of T would be prescribed, all as
zero.

where  =  ei

Body wave solutions. By looking for body wave solutions in the form
u(X, t) = p f (n  X  ct) ,

where unit vector n is the propagation direction, p is the polarization, or direction of particle
motion, and c is the wave speed, one may show for the isotropic material that solutions exist for
arbitrary functions f(..) if either
59

c = cd  (  + 2μ ) /  and p = n ,

or

c = cs  μ /  and p  n = 0 .

The first case, with particle displacements in the propagation direction, describes longitudinal or
dilatational waves and the latter case, which corresponds to two linearly independent
displacement directions, both transverse to the propagation direction, describes transverse or
shear waves. For any given propagation direction n in a general anisotropic material, the wave
speeds (squared) are the eigenvalues, and the polarizations the eigenvectors, solving
3  3 3

    ni

k =1 i =1l =1


2
Cijkl nl  pk = c p j (j = 1, 2, 3)


Here the positive definiteness of the strain energy suffices to assure that there are three real
positive solutions for c2 with associated polarizations p that are mutually orthogonal ( or can be
chosen to be such when two c2 values coincide like in the isotropic case). Further, as any such
body wave propagates, the stress vector T it creates, on a surface with normal in the propagation
direction, and the particle velocity v of the wave field satisfy T = –  c v . Thus, for example, if
a uniform pressure p is suddenly applied to a certain area of a planar boundary of an isotropic
elastic solid, points within that area will suddenly acquire the velocity p/cd, and will maintain
that velocity until dilational waves arrive from the edges of the pressurized area or from other
boundaries after reflection of the outgoing wave.
Linear elastic beam. The case of a beam treated as a linear elastic one-dimensional line may
also be considered. Let the line lie along the 1 axis, Figure 12, have properties that are uniform
along its length, and have sufficient symmetry that bending it by applying a torque about the 3
direction causes the line to deform into an arc lying in the 1,2 plane. Make an imaginary cut
through the line and let the forces and torque acting at that section on the part lying in the
direction of decreasing X1 be denoted as a shear force V in the positive 2 direction, an axial force
P in the positive 1 direction, and a torque M, commonly called a bending moment, about the
positive 3 direction. The linear and angular momentum principles then require that the actions at
that section on the part of the line lying in the direction of increasing X1 are of equal magnitude
but opposite sign. Now let the line be loaded by transverse force F per unit length, directed in
the 2 direction, and make assumptions on the smallness of deformation consistent with those of
linear elasticity. Let A be the mass per unit length (so that A could be interpreted as the cross
section area of a homogeneous beam of density ) and let u the transverse displacement in the 2
60

direction.
Then, writing X for X1, the linear and angular momentum principles require that

V/X + F = A 2u/t2 , M/X + V = 0
where rotatory inertia has been neglected in the second equation, as is appropriate for longwavelength disturbances compared to cross section dimensions. The curvature  of the elastic
line can be approximated by  = 2u / X 2 for the small deformation situation considered, and
the equivalent of the stress-strain relation is to assume that  is a function of M at each point
along the line. The function can be derived by the analysis of stress and strain in pure bending
and is M =
2
EI with I =  (X2 ) dA for uniform elastic properties over all the cross section, and with the 1
A

axis passing through the section centroid. Hence the equation relating transverse load and
displacement of a linear elastic beam is

– 2 (EI 2u/X 2 ) / X 2 + F = A 2u/t2
and this is to be solved subject to two boundary conditions at each end of the elastic line.
Examples are u = u/X = 0 at a completely restrained (“built in”) end, u = M = 0 at an end that
is restrained against displacement but not rotation, and V = M = 0 at a completely unrestrained
(free) end. The beam will be reconsidered later in an analysis of response with initial stress
present.

Figure 12. Transverse motion of an initially straight beam, shown at left as a onedimensional elastic line, and at right as a three-dimensional solid of finite section.
The preceding derivation was presented in the spirit of the model of a beam as the elastic line
61

of Euler. We may obtain the same equations of motion by the following five steps:
(1) Integrate the three-dimensional equations of motion over a section, writing
V =   12 dA .
A

(2) Integrate X2 times those equations over a section, writing M =   A X2 11dA .

(3) Assume that planes initially perpendicular to fibers lying along the 1 axis remain
perpendicular during deformation, so that 11 = o(X, t) – X2 (X, t) where X  X1, o(X, t) is
the strain of the fiber along the 1 axis and (X, t) = 2u/X2 where u(X, t) is u2 for the fiber
initially along the 1 axis.
(4) Assume that the stress 11 relates to strain as if each point was under uniaxial tension, so
that 11 = E 11.
(5) Neglect terms of order h2/L2 compared to unity, where h is a typical cross section
dimension and L is a scale length for variations along the 1 direction.
In step (1) the average of u2 over area A enters but may be interpreted as the displacement u
of step (3) to the order retained in (5). The kinematic assumption (3) together with (5), if
implemented under conditions that there are no loadings to generate a net axial force P, requires
that o(X, t) = 0 and that (X, t) = M(X, t)/EI when the 1 axis has been chosen to pass through
the centroid of the cross section. Hence 11 = –X2 M(X, t) / I = –X2 E 2u(X, t)/X2 according
to these approximations. The expression for 11 is exact for static equilibrium under pure
bending, since assumptions (3) and (4) are exact and (5) is irrelevant then. That is, of course,
what motivates the use of assumptions (3) and (4) in a situation which does not correspond to
pure bending. The beam is discussed again in the final subsection on elasticity, when we
consider the effects of significant initial stresses on vibrations and buckling.
Finite-element stiffness procedure. To illustrate the finite-element procedure (which is in
no sense restricted to our present context of linear elasticity, or to the displacement-based
formulation about to be outlined) let us rewrite the Principle of Virtual Work making use of the
6-member columns {} and {} to describe stress and strain, and introducing 3-member columns
{u}, {f} and {T} to describe the vectors u, f and T of displacement, body force and surface
traction. Then the principle requires that

{u}T{T} dS +
S

{u}T{f} dV =
V

T

 {u}T2{u}/t2 dV +
V

{} {} dV
V

for every compatible set of variations {u} and {}. The approximation now consists of
62

dividing the domain into cells, called elements, with {u} within each interpolated from the
values of {u} at nodes. The set of such nodal values of displacements defines the column {Q},
which has 3n members if n is the number of nodes, and the interpolation is done so that {u} is
continuous across element boundaries for any set of {Q} whatsoever. There are many ways of
accomplishing this. The simplest is to divide the domain into tetrahedra (a tetrahedron is a solid
with four triangular faces, for example, like in Figure 4) with nodes located at vertices, and to
interpolate {u} as a linear function of the three spatial coordinates within each such element.
Then {u} within is uniquely determined by the values of {u} at the four nodes of each element
(these are a subset of the members of the column {Q}). The value of {u} along any face is
readily seen to be determined uniquely by the three nodes at the vertices of that face this
interpolation assures that {u} is continuous from one to the other element which meet at that
face. In practice, far more elaborate elements and interpolation procedures are often used. The
interpolation approximates the displacement field in the form {u(X, t)} = [N(X)]{Q(t)} where
[N] is the 3 by 3n matrix describing the interpolation over elements, and from the straindisplacement relations there will be an associated representation of the strain in the form {(X,
t)} = [B(X)]{Q(t)} where [B] is a 6 by 3n matrix, although within any given element all entries
of [N] and [B] will be zero except those associated with the nodes bordering that element.
We now insist that the Principal of Virtual Work hold for all variations {u} = [N(X)]{Q}
and {} = [B(X)]{Q} that can be generated by arbitrary variations of {Q}, and thus obtain the
3n discretized equations of motion

d2
{F} = [M] 2 {Q} +  [B]T {}dV ,
V
dt

where

{F(t)} = S [N]T {T}dV + V [N]T { f}dV and [M] = V [N]T [N]dV .
By expressing {} in terms of {} ( = [B]{Q} ) through a stress-strain relation, this becomes a
differential equation in {Q}. Thus, in the present case of linear elasticity with {} = [D]{} =
[D][B]{Q}, we obtain

d2

{F} = [M] 2 {Q} + [K]{Q} ,
dt
T

where [K] = V [B] [D][B]dV is called the stiffness matrix. Also, {F} is called the
63

force column and [M] the (consistent) mass matrix. In the general problem not all of the
members of {F} are known because, for example, some may be associated with forces at
restrained portions of the boundary. But in such cases the corresponding members of {Q} will
be known, as zero at those nodes corresponding to a restrained boundary. Thus one solves, on
the computer, the subset of these equations that involves the known F’s on the left and unknown
Q’s on the right, and then back-substitutes the solution to extract the unknown F’s. Typically, in
implementations, it is acceptable replace [M] by a diagonal matrix, which corresponds to
lumping mass at the nodes.
Some elementary two-dimensional solutions. A sense of the sort of problems addressed by
elasticity theory can be seen from the sample which now follows of some simple twodimensional problems.
Plane strain and plane stress. Plane strain describes the situation in which all
displacements occur parallel to a given plane and are a function of position in that plane. For
example, u1 = u1(X1, X2), u2 = u2(X1, X2), u3 = 0. Thus 33 = 0, which requires that
33 = (11 + 22 ), and the other non-zero stresses are 11, 12 and 22. States of plane strain
are exact solutions of the elasticity equations. Plane stress, by contrast, is an approximate theory
for thin plates of, in the simplest case, uniform thickness that are loaded in their plane (say, the
1,2 plane) in such a way that the middle surface does not bend. The equations of plane stress
incorporate the assumption that 33 = 0 in writing stress-strain relations. The condition 33 = 0 is
exact at the unloaded faces of the plate but is, in general, only satisfied approximately within the
interior of the plate (nevertheless, 33 is very small compared to in-plane stresses when the scale
length over which stress varies within the plate is large compared to plate thickness). The
equilibrium equations in the plane, which now refer to averages of stress over the thickness, are
the same as for plane strain, and the governing equations for the two cases can be considered
together. It is often convenient for static problems to express the governing differential
equations in terms of stresses. In that case one uses the equations of motion with a = 0, which
are then the equilibrium equations, together with the compatibility equation which assures that
the in-plane strains 11, 12 and 22 are derivable from the two displacement components u1 and
u2. When there are negligible body forces ( f1 = f2 = 0 ) the governing equations are therefore

11/X 1 + 12/X 2 = 0 , 12/X 1 + 22/X 2 = 0 ,
and 2  22 / X12 + 211 / X22 = 22 12 / X1 X 2 .
64

By using the stress-strain relations the last of these can be expressed in terms of the stresses.
After some help from the equilibrium equations to simplify, one finds that
 2 (11 +  22 ) = 0
2

for both cases when we assume an isotropic linear elastic material. Here  =
2 / X12 + 2 / X22 . Thus the governing equations when expressed in terms of the stresses 11,
12 and 22 are the same for both plane stress and plane strain, and hence when the boundary
conditions on a problem are expressed entirely in terms of stress, the same in-plane stress
distribution will result in both cases. The problems differ in that 33 = 0 for plane strain, which
leads to 33 = (11 + 22 ), whereas 33 = 0 for plane stress, which leads to the thicknessdirection strain 33 = (11 + 22 )/E.
It is often convenient to introduce the Airy stress function, U = U(X1, X2) which exactly
satisfies the above equations of plane stress or plane strain equilibrium, in absence of body
forces, by representing stresses as

11 = 2U / X22 ,  12 = 2U / X1 X 2 and  22 = 2U / X12 .
Then, if we insist on satisfying strain compatibility and express the strains in terms of stresses by
the linear isotropic relations, so that  2 (11 +  22 ) = 0 as above, the governing equation which
determines U is  2 (2U ) = 0 , which is called the biharmonic equation. The next sections
present a few solutions.
Equations in polar coordinates. In developing such solutions, the use of polar coordinates
r, in the X1,X2 plane will be helpful, with X1 = r cos and X2 = r sin. Stress components

 rr , r =  r ,  relative to the polar coordinate system are shown in Figure 13. These may
be expressed in term of the Cartesian stress components at the same point by an application of
the stress transformation equations developed earlier, and in particular by application of the
Mohr circle transformation of Figure 7. They are given by
 rr +   =  11 +  22 , and    rr + 2i r = exp(2i )( 22   11 + 2i 12 ) .
Here i = 1 , the unit imaginary number. Also, the equations of equilibrium in polar
65

coordinates for plane stress or plane strain states are

 rr  rr    1  r
 r 2 r 1  
+
+
+ fr = 0 , and
+
+
+ f = 0 ,
r 
r 
r
r
r
r
and in the absence of body force ( fr = f = 0 ) all solutions may likewise be expressed in terms
of an Airy stress function U by

 rr =

1 U 1 2U
 1 U
2U
+ 2 2 ,  r =  (
) , and   = 2 .
r r r 
r r 
r

Further, for the linear isotropic elastic case,  2 (2U ) = 0 as above, where in this coordinate
system
2

 =

2

1 
1 2
+
+
.
2
r r r2  2
r

Figure 13. Stress components in polar coordinates.
Holes and stress concentrations. Consider a circular hole of radius a in a plate whose
dimensions are much larger than a and can, for present purposes be taken as infinite (Figure 14).
The plate is under remotely uniform stress  in the 2 direction and the boundary of the hole is
free of loading. The same conditions, interpreted as a plane strain problem, describe a circular
66

tunnel in a large solid. Thus we wish to solve  2 (2U ) = 0 subject to the requirements that the
stresses associated with U satisfy 22  , 11  0 and 12  0 as r   , and that rr =
r = 0 on r = a. To make the solution to this type of problem unique, we must also specify the
value of the integral of u/s with respect to arc length s around the hole, which is zero in the
present case for which we require a single-valued displacement field, but which would be nonzero if the hole was to represent the core of a dislocation.

Figure 14. Circular hole on a large plate (or circular tunnel

in a solid) under remote tensile stress  .
The proper stress state as r   is given by writing U =   X12 / 2 =  r 2 (1 + cos2 ) / 4
and, while this does not meet the conditions on the boundary of the hole, it does encourage one
to seek solutions to  2 (2U ) = 0 , which is a partial differential equation, in the form U = g(r) +
h(r)cos2. The functions g(r) and h(r) must satisfy ordinary differential equations, which are
easier to solve. After solving for the most general forms of g(r) and h(r) which, for example, for
h is h(r) = A r 4 + B r 2 + C + D r –2 where A, B, C and D are constants, and choosing all
constants to meet the given conditions on stress at r = a and as r   , and to give single-valued
67

displacements, one solves for U and from it finds the stresses:

 rr = (  / 2)[(1  a2 / r 2 )  (1 4a2 / r 2 + 3a 4 / r 4 )cos2 ]
 r = (  / 2)(1 + 2a 2 / r2  3a4 / r 4 )sin 2

.

 = (  / 2)[(1 + a 2 / r2 ) + (1 + 3a4 / r 4 )cos2 ]
Thus, setting r = a,  =   (1 + 2cos2 ) is the stress created around the boundary of the
hole. This amounts at  = 0 and , that is, at boundary points intersected by the X1 axis, to a

concentration of stress  = 22 = 3 . At  = /2 and –/2, points intersected by the X2 axis,

there is an oppositely signed stress  = 11 = – . Thus, when we consider a circular hole in
a brittle material which can support very little tensile stress, we expect failure to begin at  = 0 or
 under remote tensile loading, but at  = /2 or –/2, and at three times the load level, under
remote compressive loading.

Figure 15. Elliptical tunnel hole, and limit as a flat crack.
As another problem showing an important aspect of stress concentration, consider the
Kolosov-Inglis problem of an elliptical hole (Figure 15, at left) in large plate under remotely
uniform stress  in the 2 direction as above. This also describes the tunnel cavity of elliptical
cross section under plane strain. Let a denote the semi-axis of the ellipse along the 1 direction
and b denote that along the 2 direction; the equation of the ellipse is X12 / a2 + X22 / b 2 = 1. It is
then found that the concentration of stress at points of the hole boundary intersected by the X1


axis is 22 = (1 + 2b/a) , which can be rewritten as  22 = (1+ 2 a /  tip ) . In the latter
form, tip = b2/a is the radius of curvature of the hole boundary, at the tip of the hole at X1 = ± a.
This illustrates a result of general validity for notches with relatively small root radii compared
to length: The elevation of stress over the value () in absence of the notch is, very

approximately, given by 2 a /  tip in all cases, where a is the half length of an internal
notch like the elliptical hole just discussed, and is the length of a notch that has been cut in from
68

the free surface of a solid. Thus good engineering design is always sensitive to the stress
concentrating effect of holes and, especially, notches or other cut-outs of small root radius,
avoiding them where possible. This is a lesson reinforced by the bitter experience of many
structural failures beginning at unrecognized locations of stress concentration. In the particular
case of the elliptical hole, the stress induced along the hole boundary where it is intersected by
the X2 axis is 11 = – , independent of the b/a ratio.
Inclusions. Points around the boundary of the elliptical hole just discussed are found to
displace according to the equations
u1 = (  / E  )X1 , and u2 = (1 + 2a / b)(  / E )X2
where X1 and X2 are coordinates of points on the boundary, and satisfy X12 / a2 + X22 / b 2 = 1.
Also, E  = E for the plane stress model but E  = E / (1  2 ) for plane strain. These results
show that if we had considered not a solid with an elliptical hole but rather a solid with a uniform
elliptical inclusion of another material, in this case a material with vanishing small elastic
modulus compared to that of the surrounding solid (so that the situation in the surrounding solid
is indistinguishable from that for the case of a hole), then that inclusion would undergo uniform
incl
incl
strain, the strains  ij within it being given by rewriting the above equations as u1 = 11
X1 and
incl
incl
u2 =  22
X2 and noting that 12
= 0 . A little reflection on this result will convince one that if
an inclusion of arbitrary but uniform and isotropic material properties (the stress-strain relation
for the inclusion material need not even be linear) were placed in the hole, then the inclusion
would undergo a uniform stress and strain that could be calculated from its material properties
and the information given so far here.

This discussion generalizes to an important three-dimensional result discovered by J. D.
Eshelby and which is this: Let a uniform, possibly anisotropic, linear elastic solid of infinite
extent be loaded by a remotely uniform stress tensor and let it contain an ellipsoidal inclusion of
a material of uniform but different mechanical properties. The inclusion material can even be
such that, in its stress-free state, it takes an ellipsoidal shape which differs finitely from the
stress-free shape of the ellipsoidal hole into which it is to be inserted. Eshelby’s result is that,
regardless of all these factors, the inclusion undergoes a spatially uniform stress and strain state.
To develop that result, Eshelby first solved the transformation problem of a misfitting linear
elastic inclusion of identical properties as those of the surrounding material. That involves
taking an ellipsoidal region of a uniform solid and, at least conceptually, transforming its stress69

free state by a homogeneous infinitesimal strain, without changing its elastic properties. A
uniform stress field within the transformed zone then suffices to deform it back to its original
shape, and that stress field can be maintained in-situ, without disturbance of the region outside
the ellipsoid, by application of a suitable layer of surface force. Since the actual transformation
problem to be solved has no agent to supply that layer of force, the strains everywhere can be
calculated as those due to removing such a layer (i.e., applying a force layer of opposite sign)
within an elastically uniform full space. One calculates then that the stress and strain state
induced within the inclusion is uniform, and the rest of what is needed for arbitrary inclusions
can be developed from there.
Crack as limit of elliptical hole. Consider again the two-dimensional problem of the
elliptical hole under remotely uniform tension, and let the semi-axis b go to zero (Figure 15, at
right) so as to define a flat Griffith crack lying along the X1 axis on – a < X1 < + a. In this case
the stress concentration at the hole becomes unbounded so that it can fairly be objected that the
discussion lies outside the proper realm of linear elasticity. However, as will be seen, it proves
quite useful to continue with the linear elastic model and to learn about its stress singularities.
Letting  u2 = u2+  u2 denote the crack opening gap (superscripts + and – denote the upper and
lower crack surfaces) we see that

 u2 = (4  / E ) a2  X12 , – a < X1 < + a .
Also, the tensile stress transmitted across the X1 axis outside the crack (i.e., on X2 = 0) is

 22 =   X1 / X12  a 2 , –  < X1 < – a and + a < X1 < +  .
Thus, very near the crack tip, say, at X1 = a, the displacement of the crack walls varies in
proportion to

a  X1 , whereas the stress a small distance ahead of the crack varies as

1 / X1  a . These are, in fact, universal features of all linear elastic solutions to crack
problems, whether two- or three-dimensional and whether in isotropic or anisotropic materials,
when the crack is idealized as a mathematical cut across which no loading is transferred.
Crack tip fields. To understand the origin of this universality consider the stress state near a
crack edge in a three-dimensional solid, where now the origin of coordinates is placed at a point
of interest along the crack tip, with the 2 axis normal to the local plane of the crack, the 3 axis
70

tangent to the crack tip, and the 1 axis pointing in the direction of crack growth. For simplicity,
assume that the material is isotropic and that the symmetry of the geometry and loading is such
as to induce a tensile opening u2 but no relative shear displacements u1 or u3 of the crack
walls. One easily sees that unless the point chosen along the crack front happens to coincide
with the intersection of the crack with a boundary of the solid, or to a kink along the front, all
terms involving  /X3 in the governing set of equations must become negligible compared to
those involving  /X1 and  /X2 as the crack tip singularity is approached. So also must terms
involving  /t in the case of a non-propagating crack. Hence the singular field for a nonpropagating crack satisfies the same equations as apply for the singular field at the tip of a crack
under static plane-strain conditions, a situation which is readily analyzed.
Some generalizations are as follows: For the propagating crack, the singularity is likewise
the same as for the plane strain case. The operator  /t in the governing equations can then be
replaced by – Vcr  /X1 for purposes of establishing the form of the singular field; here Vcr is
the instantaneous speed of crack propagation. For general loadings that also, or perhaps only,
induce relative shear displacement discontinuities u1 and u3 along the crack surfaces, and for
arbitrary elastic anisotropy, the same discussion holds good except that then the singular field is
given by some combination of two-dimensional plane strain and anti-plane strain equations (i.e.,
all three displacements are functions of just X1 and X2). Cracks with shear displacement
discontinuities are of interest as models for earthquake faulting, although then it is generally
thought necessary to consider the crack walls as being subjected to surface forces of frictional
type, possibly dependent on the normal stress, instantaneous slip rate, and slip history.

Figure 16. Coordinates for analysis of crack tip singular field.
Thus, returning to the case of the non-propagating, tensile loaded, crack tip, we consider the
plane strain formulation and choose polar coordinates such that  = 0 is the direction of
prospective growth, and that  = ±  denotes the crack walls (Figure 16). The problem then is to
find the form of an Airy function U generating stresses consistent with the symmetry of the
problem and such that r =  = 0 on the crack walls. By following M. L. Williams in
71

assuming that U has the form r  + 2 f(), one finds that  2 (2U ) = 0 will be satisfied in a way
consistent with the symmetry of the problem if f() = A cos + B cos( + 2) where A, B and
 are constants. This form of the Airy function produces stresses proportional to r  , so the
values of  of interest in describing a singular solution are  < 0.
The stresses which enter the boundary conditions are then calculated as

 =  2U / r2 = ( + 2) ( + 1) r  [A cos + B cos( + 2)], and
 r = (r1U /  ) / r = ( + 1) r  [ A sin + ( + 2) B sin( + 2)].
Setting both to zero at  = ±  then requires
(A + B) cos = [ A + ( + 2) B] sin = 0 ,
which has solutions
 = ..., 7/2, 5/2, 3/2, 1/2, 1/2, 3/2, 5/2, ... with B = – A /( + 2),
and

 = ..., 3, 2, 1, 0, 1, 2, 3, ... with B = – A.

When it is realized that one must reject any  values which are so negative as to lead to
unbounded total strain energy of some finite region, one concludes that only values  > –1 are
admissible. There is one and only one value of  in the range –1 <  < 0 which is admissible and
allows a singular field meeting the crack surface boundary conditions. It is  = –1/2 and, for it,
B must be related in a specific way to A. Thus the singular field at the crack tip has one free
parameter (A, which we now redefine as 1/ 2 times a parameter designated KI). The singular
distribution of stress at a tensile crack tip is then found to be:

 =

KI
KI
KI



 
 
cos3  
 ,  r =
cos2  
 sin 
 ,  rr =
cos 
  2  cos2  
  . .
2r
2
2r
2
2
2r
2 	
2 

Also, 33 = (rr + ) . The same singular field applies within the simple plane stress model for
a crack in a plate when we set 33 = 0.

72

The quantity KI is called the Mode I stress intensity factor. It will be proportional to the
loading in a given problem and will depend on crack geometry, and gives the stress acting across
the plane  = 0 ahead of the crack, very near its tip, according to  = 22 = KI / 2r . There
are analogous singular stress fields for cracks loaded so as to sustain in-plane (Mode II) relative
shear displacements u1, and anti-plane (Mode III) relative shear displacements u3, of their
surfaces near the tip, and stress intensity factors KII and KIII characterize the strength of the
singularity for those modes.
All the other allowed values of  given above correspond to zero stress at r = 0, except for
the  = 0 value; it corresponds to a uniform stress state of type 11 = T (a constant) acting
parallel to the crack. It is found that positive values of T promote the growth of a tensile loaded
crack out of its initial plane, i. e., promote an instability of the planar crack path.
The displacement field associated with the singular stress state for the Mode I crack is

u1 =

KI
2μ

K
r

(  cos )cos  , u2 = I
 2
2μ
2

r

(  cos )sin 
2
2

where  = 3  4 for plane strain, and the expression is valid also for plane stress if we set
 = (3  )/(1 + ) . Thus the displacement across the crack face, very near the tip, in the plane
strain case is  u2 = [4(1   )K I / μ ]) r / 2 .
In the case of the tunnel crack of length 2a in a solid under remote tension ,
KI =   a . This may be obtained either by comparing the complete expression for u2 given
above for the tunnel crack to the small r result, or by comparing the complete expression for 22
above to the analogous small r result, 22 = KI / 2r . For an edge crack penetrating by depth a
into a half-space under the same remote tension, KI is 1.12 times that value, and for a circular
crack of radius a in a large solid it is 2/ times that value. Many problems have been solved, and
computational mechanics techniques developed for the solution of more, such that expressions of
KI are readily available in the technical literature on fracture mechanics for many cases of
interest.
The above representation of the field near the crack tip can be valid only at values of r that
are large compared to the size of some inner cut-off zone, that being the zone where any of
inelastic deformation, large geometry changes, or microscale discreteness of material invalidate
73

the homogeneous linear elastic continuum model. Nevertheless, there are many cases for which
the cut-off zone size is very much smaller than overall overall sizes like crack length or specimen
size and, since the continuum stress field is dominated by the 1 / r terms in that small size
range, in such cases we can assert that KI characterizes the intensity of loading sensed at the
crack tip. This is so even though the linear elastic solution, and in many cases, perhaps any
continuum solution, is wrong in detail immediately at the crack tip. Thus, for all such cases, a
viable procedure, defining what is sometimes called linear elastic fracture mechanics, consists of
the following: We measure crack growth data in the laboratory, whether under monotonically
increasing load, sustained load in the presence of an active chemical environment that causes
stress corrosion cracking, or fluctuating load as for fatigue crack growth, and correlate the
measured cracking response as a function of KI. Then, to make a prediction of crack growth in a
structure of the same material, one uses the data correlated in terms of KI, together with a linear
elastic stress analysis determining the expression for KI in terms of the loading on, and crack
geometry in, the structure, as a means of predicting response in service. There is also a
substantial body of work on crack growth in plastic or creeping solids which attempts to extract,
from continuum solutions for such materials, parameters in terms of which growth can be
correlated. There is, of course, an important component of research in materials science directed
to understanding the mechanics of fracture processes at scales extending to those of microscale
separation processes, whether by cleavage, or plastic or diffusional cavitation.
Griffith introduced the idea of an energy flow to a fracture. Based on the linear elastic
(quasi)static crack tip field, the energy G which is lost per unit area of new crack surface is
given as G = KI2 / E  ; G A is the difference between the work done by applied forces and the
change in strain energy, in an increment of crack growth over the infinitesimal area A. For
ideally brittle solids with no sources of dissipation by plastic or creep deformation, and with
negligible “lattice trapping”, the crack growth condition should be G = 2 s, as proposed by
Griffith, where s is the surface free energy and hence 2 s is the work of reversibly separating
atomic bonds over a unit area in the solid. However, most solids, even rather brittle ones, show
energy adsorption in fracture that is greatly in excess of 2 s, and hence the fracture energy of a
solid, which is the value of G for crack growth, is regarded as an empirical parameter to be
measured directly in a cracking test or inferred from the relation of G to the critical KI from such
a test.
Torsion. Consider a cylindrical bar, not necessarily of circular cross section, with its axis
along the 3 direction, and which supports torsional loading by a torque M3 about that axis. A
74

simplified formulation was devised by Saint-Venant in 1852 which involves the same stress and
strain distribution at each section along the length of the bar; the resulting solution may not be
accurate near the ends of the bar where loadings are applied. Each cross section is assumed to
displace in its own plane by a rotation which increases with distance along the bar and which
creates no strain of fibers lying in a cross section plane; that is, 11 = 12 = 22 = 0. The rotation
is  X3 where  is the angle of twist per unit length and the displacements in such planes are u1 =
–X3X2, u2 = X3X1. The earliest attempts to solve the problem made, at this point, the
assumption that u3 = 0 but, for other than a bar of circular section, that assumption cannot solve
the problem; the strains associated with such a u field lead to stresses which do not make T = 0
on the lateral surfaces of the bar. However, u3 = 0 is correct for the case of a bar with section in
the form of a circle or circular annulus. The resulting non-zero stresses, 31 = –μX2 and 32 =
μX1, satisfy the equilibrium equations and make T = 0 on the bar surface, provided that the
coordinate origin is at the bar center. Thus if A denotes the cross section area of a bar with
section in form of a circle or concentric circular annulus, the torque which must be applied to
generate the angle of twist  per unit length is calculated by
M3 = 

A

(X1 32  X2 31 )dA = μ  (X12 + X22 )dA
A

= μ  r 2 (2r )dr = ( / 2)(ro4  ri4 )
A
where ri and ro are the inner and outer radii of a circular annulus, and ri = 0 for a full circular
section of radius ro. The stress distribution is more readily described in this case in terms of
polar coordinates r and  in the section; then the shear stress distribution is given by 3r = 0 and
3 = M3 r / J where J = ( / 2)(ro4  ri4 ) .
For other than circular section shapes a non-zero warping displacement u3 = u3(X1, X2) must
also develop. Then the shear stresses are given by

 31 = μ (u3 / X1  X2 ) , and  32 = μ(u3 / X2 +  X1 ) .
These will satisfy the equations of equilibrium if u3 satisfies  2u3 = 0 , and will produce zero
tractions, T3 = 0, on the lateral surface if n1u3/X1 + n2u3/X2 = (n1X2 – n2X1)  at points
along the boundary of the section, where (n1, n2) are the components of the outward unit normal
to the surface.
It is generally somewhat easier to instead solve torsion problems by formulating the set of
75

governing differential equations in terms of the two shear stresses rather than in terms of the
displacement. In that case we have to solve the following equations:

31/X 1 + 32/X 2 = 0 ,

31/X 2 + μ = 32/X 1 – μ ,

where the first is the only equation of equilibrium not trivially satisfied by the assumed state of
shear stress and the second is a compatibility condition written in terms of stress, and can be
obtained by observing that (u3 / X 2 ) / X1 must equal (u3 / X1) / X 2 . These equations
are to be solved subject to the boundary condition T3 = n131 + n232 = 0. Solutions are easiest
to develop if we introduce a stress function (X1, X2) which automatically satisfies the
equilibrium (first) equation above. This is done by relating  to the stresses by 31 = μ /X2
2

and 32 = – μ /X1 . The compatibility (second) equation above then requires that   = 2
within the section, and the boundary condition may be shown to be equivalent to requiring that
/s = 0 on the outer surface of the bar (s = arc length around the bounding curve of a cross
section), so that  = constant on the outer surface. That constant is irrelevant to determining the
stress state and, to simplify a later expression, we take  = 0 on the outer surface.
If the bar is multiply connected, that is, if it has one or more internal holes in the section, then
 must be assigned a constant value on the boundary of each such hole (it is then convenient to
also define  within each such hole, making it equal to that constant). The constant associated
with each hole is not known a priori but, rather, follows from requiring that the integral of dX1
u3/X1 + dX2 u3/X2 around the boundary of each such hole is zero. When expressed in
terms of the stresses, and hence , this requires that the integral of
n1 / X1 + n2  / X2 with respect to arc length around the boundary of every such hole be
equal to twice the cross section area of the hole; here (n1, n2) are components of the unit normal
to the wall of the hole, pointing away from the material and into the hole. This requirement
provides a supplemental set of conditions that lets one determine the constants.
The torque necessary to create the angle of twist  per unit length is then given by

M3 = 2μ A dA
where the integral extends over the entire area within the outer boundary of the section, the area
of material and that of any holes too.

76

Membrane analogy for torsion. Consider first a bar of solid cross section. Let the lateral
boundary of the bar be represented by the bounding contour  in the X1,X2 plane of the cross
2

section A. Then we wish to solve   = 2 in A subject to boundary condition  = 0 on .
This is exactly the equation which solves the following problem: A thin soap film membrane is
laid over a hole A, with bounding contour  , in a plate lying in the in the X1,X2 plane. Then the
under side of the membrane is lightly pressurized by p relative to the upper side to create an
upward displacement w. The equation governing w is To 2w =  p in A subject to boundary
condition w = 0 on . This is the same equation as for the torsion problem, and if we make the
identification  = 2To w / p , then the solution of the membrane problem (which is easy to
visualize, and can be produced without calculations in the laboratory) provides a solution to the
torsion problem. Indeed, the slope – w / n of the membrane at its boundary, in the direction
perpendicular the supporting curve , gives the shear stress  3s (where the s direction is along 
) at the boundary of the bar; precisely,  3s / μ = – (2To / p)w / n . The component  3n is
zero there, which is a boundary condition already imposed in developing the formulation. Also,
the volume displaced by the membrane gives the torsional stiffness factor  A dA .
The same membrane analogy applies for torsion of a bar with one or more holes along the X3
axis. This is a much harder case to produce in the laboratory, but not much harder to visualize,
and so is useful. Now we imagine that wherever there is a hole in the section, the corresponding
part of the membrane is removed and replaced with a thin rigid plate, of equally negligible
weight, to which the membrane is attached. The entire arrangement, membrane and one or more
rigid plate inserts within it, is pressurized as previously, but now the inserts are constrained so
that they can only displace without tilting, which means that w is uniform within each such
insert. We then have the governing equations that To 2w =  p within the region of membrane,
that w = 0 on the external boundary , and that the integral of To (n1w / X1 + n2w / X2 ) with
respect to arc length around the boundary of every such insert be equal to p times the area of the
insert (for equilibrium of each insert, where the convention for n1,n2 is as above). Under the
interpretation  = 2To w / p , these are the same governing equations as for the torsion problem
and, for example, the torsional stiffness factor  A dA is then given in terms of the volume
displaced by the membrane and the inserts within it.
Equations of finite deformation. The solutions thus far discussed are in the framework of
linear elasticity. Now we turn briefly to finite deformation and the associated topic of small
deformations from an equilibrium state of significant initial stress. Piola identified the stresses
which precisely satisfy the equations of motion when these are written in terms of coordinates of
77

the reference configuration. These stresses are modified from the ij because they also include
the effect of changing from /x to /X in the equations of motion, and are
Nij =

3



Siq Fjq

q=1

which define the components of what may be called the nominal, or first Piola-Kirchhoff, stress.
Here it is to be recalled that [S] is the second Piola-Kirchhoff stress, introduced earlier, and [F]
denotes [x/X]. The Nij are not symmetric, in general, are given by
Nij = o ƒ([F], )/Fji
for an elastic solid, have the property that
3



i =1

nio Nij = Tj

gives the j component of the nominal surface stress vector T as reckoned per unit area of surface
of the reference configuration at a place where its normal is no, and satisfy
3

Nij

i =1

Xi



+ f j = o

2 x j (X,t)
t

2

( j = 1,2,3 )

where f = f det[F] are body forces as reckoned per unit volume of the reference configuration.
The latter provides the system of differential equations for the x j (X, t) since the Nij are
expressed by the above considerations in terms of the components of Fkl = xk(X, t)/Xl.
There is often interest in solids which undergo extremely small strain but, possibly, quite
large rotations. An example is provided by a rod which is straight in its unstressed state but
which is sufficiently long that it can be bent elastically into a circular hoop. This will involve
maximum extensional and compressional strains of approximately D/L, where D is the
diameter and L the length, so by making L sufficiently large compared to D it will always be
possible to accomplish this elastically, with arbitrarily small strains, even though the rotation is
as large as 2 (= 360°). In such cases it is appropriate to write [S] in terms of [EM] by the same
linear elastic stress-strain relations as written earlier and giving [] in terms of []. In the case of
78

a beam modeled as an elastic line, this is equivalent to maintaining the linear elastic relation
between moment and curvature but writing the equations of motion, and the expression for
curvature in terms of displacements, in a manner that is correct for arbitrary displacement
gradients.
Small deformation from an initially stressed state. Sometimes we wish to deal with solids
which are already under stress in what we choose as the reference configuration, from which we
o
measure strain. Call those stresses  kl
which are, then, also the values of Skl and Nkl in the
reference configuration, and suppose that those stresses are in equilibrium with the body force
o
distribution f , based on unit volume of the reference state. Let us now deal with very small
departures from that stressed reference configuration such that ui / X j <<1 . In that case we
M
can equate the Ekl
with the infinitesimal strain tensor kl, and hence write

o
Sij =  ij +

3

3

 

k=1 l =1

Cijkl kl

where Cijkl has all the symmetries in its indices as elastic constants discussed earlier. In this
case the expression for the Nij, truncated at linear order in the (very small) displacement
gradients is
3
3
u j
Nij =  ijo +  (  Cijkl kl +  ilo
).
Xl
l=1 k=1

The term involving  ilo times a displacement gradient would usually be negligible in typical
cases for which the stresses are extremely small fractions of moduli. An exception occurs,
however, when the parts of displacement gradients corresponding to rotation can be very much
larger than those corresponding to strain. This is exactly what happens at the onset of buckling
in a slender strut under compression, and hence provides an example for which the conventional
simplifications of linear elasticity cannot be used even in a case for which stresses are extremely
small compared to elastic moduli. Also, for calculations involving large self-gravitating bodies
such as the Earth, the initial stresses at depth can be quite non-negligible compared to moduli.
Those stresses cannot be known precisely, but it is regarded as a good approximation to assume
that they amount to a purely hydrostatic pressure (large shear stresses should relax over
geological time), which is then uniquely determined by the radial distribution of density.

79

The linearized equations of motion for small departures from an initially stressed equilibrium
state are obtained by substituting for above in the equations of motion, remembering that the
o
[o] equilibrate the body force f :
3
2u j (X,t)
 3
uk
o u j
o
[
(
C
+

)]
+
f

f
=


  ijkl X
il
j
j
o
2
Xl
t
l
i =1 Xi l=1 k=1
3

(j = 1,2,3) .

For a solid in which the body forces are gravitational, which is the usual case, the two body
o
forces f and f will be identical if there is no change in the intensity of gravitational attraction
per unit mass associated with the disturbance leading to the displacement field u. Generally, any
such changes in the gravity field could be neglected for phenomena at the human scale, like for
the buckling of a compressed column or plate. However, for large scale phenomena in the Earth,
such as for calculation of its elastic distortion due to rotation, or of its response to tidal loading,
or for the calculation of its lower frequency (hence greater length scale) vibration modes, the
alteration of the gravity field is an important contributor to the resistance to deformation, of the
same order of magnitude of that due to elastic stiffness, and in all such cases we must regard
f  f o as a linear functional of the distribution of displacement u throughout the Earth,
calculated according to the usual equations of Newtonian gravitation.
Initially stressed beam. Consider the beam discussed earlier, and suppose that it is under an
initial uniform tensile stress 11 = o; that is, the axial force P = oA. If o is negative and of
significant magnitude, one generally refers to the beam as a column; if it is large and positive,
the beam might respond more like a taut string. Proceeding to model the beam by integrating the
equations of motion over a section, following the same five steps outlined earlier, we now
recognize that the initial stress o contributes a term to the equations of small transverse motion
so that these now become
o

V/X +   2u/X 2 + F = A 2u/t2 , M/X + V = 0 ,

where here V is defined by V =  A N21dA and we recognize that N12 – N21 = o 2u2/X2 .
Again one obtains M = EI 2u/X2, so that the equation of motion with initial stress is
o
– 2 (EI 2u/X 2 ) / X 2 +   2u/X 2 + F = A 2u/t2.

80

Free vibrations. As a particular case of some interest, suppose that the beam is of length L,
is of uniform properties, and is hinge-supported at its ends at X = 0 and X = L so that u = M = 0
there. Then free transverse motions of the beam, solving the above equation with F = 0, are
described by any linear combination of the real part of solutions of the form

u(X,t) = Cn exp(i nt)sin(nX / L)
where n is any positive integer, Cn is an arbitrary complex constant, and where
  n2 = (n  / L)4 E I [1 + ( o/ )( L 2 / n 2  2 )]

This expression is arranged so that the bracket shows the correction, from unity, of what would
be the expression giving the frequencies of free vibration for a beam when there is no o.
The correction from unity can be quite significant, even though o/E is always much smaller
than unity (for interesting cases, a few times 10–6 to, say, 10–3 would be a representative range;
few materials in bulk form would remain elastic or resist fracture at higher o/E, although good
piano wire could reach about 10–2). That is because o/E is multiplied by a term which can
become enormous for a beam which is long compared to its thickness. For a square section of
side length h, that term (at its largest, when n = 1) is AL2 /  2 I  1.2L2 / h2 , which can combine
with a small o/E to produce a correction term within the brackets which is quite non-negligible
compared to unity. When o > 0 and L is large enough to make the bracketed expression much
larger than unity, the EI term cancels out and the beam simply responds like a stretched string
(here string denotes an object which is unable to support a bending moment), although at large
enough vibration mode number n, the string-like effects become negligible and beam like
response takes over. At sufficiently high n that L/n is reduced to the same order as h, the simple
beam theory becomes inaccurate and should be replaced by three-dimensional elasticity or, at
least, an improved beam theory which takes account rotary inertia and shear deformability.
(While the option of using three-dimensional elasticity for such a problem posed an
insurmountable obstacle over most of the history of the subject, by 1990 the availability of
computing power and easily used software reduced it to a routine problem which could be
studied by an undergraduate engineer or physicist using the finite element method or some other
computational mechanics technique.)
Buckling. An important case of that of compressive loading, o < 0, which can lead to
81

buckling. Indeed, we see that if oA < – 2EI/L2, then the  2n for at least for n = 1 is negative,
which means that the corresponding  n is of the form ± ib, where b is a positive real number, so
that the exp(i nt) term has a time dependence of type which no longer involves oscillation but,
rather, exponential growth, exp(bt). The critical compressive force, 2EI/L2, which causes this
type of behavior is called the Euler buckling load. Different numerical factors are obtained for
different end conditions than the pinned ends assumed here. We may see that the acceleration
associated with the n = 1 mode becomes small in the vicinity of the critical load, and vanishes at
that load. Thus solutions are possible, at the buckling load, for which the column takes a
deformed shape without acceleration; for that reason, an approach to buckling problems which is
equivalent for what, in dynamical terminology, are called conservative systems is to seek the first
load at which an alternate equilibrium solution u = u(X), other than u = 0, may exist.
Instability by divergence, that is, with growth of displacement in the form exp(bt), is
representative of conservative systems. Columns under non-conservative loadings, for example,
by a follower force which has the property that its line of action rotates so as to always be
tangent to the beam center line at its place of application, can exhibit a flutter instability in which
the dynamic response is proportional to the real or imaginary part of a term like exp(iat) exp(bt),
that is, an oscillation with exponentially growing amplitude. Such instabilities also arise in the
coupling between fluid flow and elastic structural response, as in the subfield called
aeroelasticity, and the prototype is the flutter of an airplane wing. That is a torsional oscillation
of the wing, of growing amplitude, which is driven by the coupling between rotation of the wing
and the development of aerodynamic forces related to the angle of attack; the coupling feeds
more energy into the structure with each cycle. Of course, instability models based on linearized
theories, and predicting exponential growth in time, really tell us no more than that the system is
deforming out of the range for which our mathematical model applies. Proper nonlinear theories,
that take account of the finiteness of rotation and, sometimes, the large and possibly non-elastic
strain of material fibers are necessary to really understand the phenomena. An important
subclass of such nonlinear analyses for conservative systems involves the static post-buckling
response of a perfect structure, such as a perfectly straight column or perfectly spherical shell.
That post-buckling analysis allows one to determine if increasing force is required for very large
displacement to develop during the buckle, or whether the buckling is of a more highly unstable
type for which the load must diminish with buckling amplitude in order to still satisfy the
equilibrium equations. The latter type of behavior describes a structure which may show strong
sensitivity of the maximum load that it can support to very small imperfections of material or
geometry, as do many shell structures.
82

BIBLIOGRAPHY ON SOLID MECHANICS
For the history of the subject,
• Love, A. E. H., A Treatise on the Mathematical Theory of Elasticity, 4th ed.,
1927, reprinted by Dover Publications, New York, 1947
has a well researched chapter on the origin of elasticity up to the early 1900’s. His article on
"Elasticity" in the 11th Edition of Encyclopaedia Britannica is also a good source, as are articles
on "Mechanics" , "Elasticity" and "Mechanics of Solids" in later editions. The 11th Edition has
biographies of the major early figures. Also,
• Timoshenko, S. P., History of Strength of Materials: With a Brief Account
of the Theory of Elasticity and Theory of Structures, 1953, reprinted by Dover
Publications, New York, 1983
has good coverage of most sub-fields of solid mechanics up to the period around 1940, including
in some cases detailed but quite readable accounts of specific developments and capsule
biographies of major figures. The book
• Truesdell, C., Essays in the History of Mechanics, Springer-Verlag, New York, 1968
summarizes the author's studies of original source materials on James Bernoulli, Euler, Leonardo
and others, and connects those contributions to some of the developments in what he calls
rational mechanics as of the middle 1900’s. The articles by
• Truesdell, C. and R. A. Toupin, in Handbuch Der Physik, Volume III/1, 1960
and by
• Truesdell, C. and W. Noll, ibid., Volume III/3, 1965
also provide historical background.
For beginners, there are many good books, especially among those intended for the education of
engineers. A widely used text of that type is
• Beer, F. P., and E. R. Johnson, Jr., Mechanics of Materials, 2 nd edition,
McGraw-Hill, 1992.
Another which stands out for its coverage of inelastic solid mechanics as well as the more
conventional topics on elementary elasticity and structures is
• Crandall, S. H., N. C. Dahl and T. J. Lardner, eds., An Introduction to the
Mechanics of Solids, 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, New York, 1978.
Those with an interest in the physics of materials might want to begin with
83

• Cottrell, A. H., Mechanical Properties of Matter, Wiley, New York, 1964,
reprinted 1981.
Some books for beginners aim for a more general introduction to continuum mechanics,
including solids and fluids, and one such is
• Fung, Y. C., A First Course in Continuum Mechanics, 2nd ed., Prentice-Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1977.
A readable introduction to continuum and solid mechanics at a more advanced level, as might be
used by scientists and engineers from other fields or by first-year graduate students, is
• Malvern, L. E., Introduction to the Mechanics of a Continuous Medium,
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1969.
Treatments at a comparable level are provided by
• Prager, W., Introduction to the Mechanics of Continua, Ginn, 1961 (reprinted
by Dover, 1973);
• Fung, Y. C., Foundations of Solid Mechanics, Prentice-Hall, 1965;
• Gurtin, M. E., An Introduction to Continuum Mechanics, Academic Press, 1981.
The article by Truesdell and Toupin, mentioned above, provides a comprehensive, perhaps
overwhelming, treatment of continuum mechanics fundamentals. An elementary introduction to
elasticity and some of its engineering applications, at a level bridging that of the present category
of books and of those cited for beginners above, is
• DenHartog, J. P.: Advanced Strength of Materials, McGraw-Hill, 1952, (reprinted
by Dover).
For the advanced student seeking more specialized treatment of elasticity, the classics are the
book by Love, mentioned above, and also
• Timoshenko, S. and J. N. Goodier, Theory of Elasticity, 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill,
New York, 1951;
• Muskelishvili, N. I. (transl. J. M. Radok), Some Basic Problems in the
Mathematical Theory of Elasticity, 2nd ed., Noordhoff 1963, reissued 1977;
• Green, A. E. and W. Zerna: Theoretical Elasticity, Clarendon/Oxford, 1954;
• Landau, L. D. and E. M. Lifschitz (trans. J. B. Sykes and W. S. Reid): Theory
of Elasticity, Pergamon/Addison Wesley, 1959.
The article by Truesdell and Noll noted above is a good source on finite elasticity and also on
viscoelastic fluids. A standard reference on the latter is
• Bird, R. B., R. C. Armstrong, and O. Hassager, Dynamics of Polymeric
84

Liquids, Volume 1, Fluid Mechanics, 2nd ed., Wiley, New York, 1987.
Other books generally regarded as classics in their sub-fields are:
• Hill, R., The Mathematical Theory of Plasticity, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1950;
• Jaeger, J. C. and N. G. W. Cook, Fundamentals of Rock Mechanics, 3rd ed.,
Wiley, New York, 1979;
• Hirth, J. P. and J. Lothe, Theory of Dislocations, 2nd ed., Wiley, New York, 1982;
• Mura, T., Micromechanics of Defects in Solids, 2nd ed., Martinus Nijhoff, 1987;
• Aki, K. and P. G. Richards, Methods of Quantitative Seismology, W. H. Freeman, 1980.
Other aspects of stress waves in solids are covered by
• Achenbach, J. D., Wave Propagation in Elastic Solids, American Elsevier Pub. Co.,
New York, 1973.
The scope of finite element analysis in solid mechanics and other areas can be gleaned from
• Zienkiewicz, O. C., The Finite Element Method, 3rd ed., McGraw-Hill, New
York, 1977;
• Gallagher, R. H., Finite Element Analysis: Fundamentals, Prentice Hall, 1975.
Fracture mechanics is addressed in
• Lawn, B. R., and T. R. Wilshaw: Fracture of Brittle Solids, Cambridge Univ.
Press, 1975 (2nd edition by B. R. Lawn, 1993);
• Kanninen, M. F., and C. H. Popelar, Advanced Fracture Mechanics, Oxford
University Press, New York, 1985;
• Freund, L. B., Dynamic fracture mechanics, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1990.
An introduction to plate and shell structures is given in the book by Den Hartog cited above, and
the topic treated at an advanced level in those cited by Love and by Green and Zerna; books
specializing on the topic are
• Timoshenko, S. and S. Woinowsky-Krieger, Theory of Plates and Shells,
2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1959;
• Mansfield, E.: The Bending and Stretching of Plates, Macmillan, 1964;
• Wempner, G. A.: Mechanics of Solids with Applications to Thin Bodies,
Sijthoff and Noordhoff, 1981.
Structural mechanics and issues relating to stability, plasticity, and elastic-plastic stress-strain
relations are presented by
• Bazant, Z. P. and L. Cedolin, Stability of Structures: Elastic, Inelastic, Fracture
and Damage Theories, Oxford University Press, New York, 1991,
whereas a treatment of plasticity in a way tht updates the book cited by Hill is given by
• Lubliner, J., Plasticity Theory, Macmillan, New York, 1990.
85

Appendix: Comments on notation used here, versus that often used in elementary texts and
other sources
Coordinate axes: Denoted 1, 2, 3 or x1, x2, x3 here, versus x, y, z
 11

Stress:  = [ ] =  21
 31

 x  xy  xz 
12  13 



 22  23  here, versus  yx  y  yz 


 32  33 
 zx  zy  z 

Displacement: u = {u} = [u1, u2, u3]T here, versus [u, v, w]T
 11

Strain:  = [ ] =   21
 31

12 13   11  12 / 2  13 / 2 
 

22  23  =  21 / 2
 22  23 / 2  here,
 32  33   31 / 2  32 / 2 33 
 x
 xy / 2  xz / 2


versus  yx / 2
y
 yz / 2 


z 
 zx / 2  zy / 2

Note on relation to other works by the author
The Introduction and Historical Sketch here closely follow parts of the article Mechanics of
Solids published by the author as a section of the article on Mechanics in the 1993 printing of the
15th edition of Encyclopaedia Britannica (volume 23, pages 734 - 747 and 773). Some
subsequent portions are expanded versions of that Encyclopaedia Britannica text. Also, parts
have been presented in a slightly modified form, sometimes at a more advanced level, as Chapter
3, Foundations of Solid Mechanics, of the book Mechanics and Materials: Fundamentals and
Linkages (eds. M. A. Meyers, R. W. Armstrong, and H. Kirchner), Wiley, 1999.

86

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

1

HISTORICAL SKETCH

4

Concepts of stress, strain and elasticity
Beams, columns, plates, shells
Elasticity, general theory
Waves
Stress concentrations and fracture
Dislocations
Continuum plasticity theory
Viscoelasticity
Computational mechanics

4
5
7
8
9
10
11
13
14

BASIC PRINCIPLES

15

Linear and Angular Momentum Principles: Stress, and Equations of Motion
Stress vector and equations of motion in integral form
Stress components
Summation convention
Tensors; stress transformations
Equations of motion, local form
Consequence of angular momentum: stress symmetry
Alternative derivation, local equations of motion
Principal stresses
Stress transformation in a plane, Mohr circle
Further remarks

18
20
22
24
25
26
27
28
30
31
33

Geometry of Deformation: Strain, Strain-Displacement Relations, Compatibility
Small strain tensor.

34
36

87

Strain tensor transformation
Principal strains
Mohr circle for strain transformation in a plane
Strain compatibility
Small strain analysis
Finite deformation and strain tensors

38
38
39
40
41
41

Some Comments on Work and Energy
Virtual work
First law of thermodynamics

43
43
44

Stress-Strain Relations
Linear elastic isotropic solid
Relation of G to E and 

45
45
47

Other constants
Thermal strains
Anisotropy
Thermodynamic considerations; second law
Isothermal versus isentropic response
Finite elastic deformations
Inelastic response
Plasticity and creep
Rigid-plastic model
Elastic-plastic model, co-rotational stress rate
Linear viscoelasticity

48
48
49
50
52
53
54
54
55
56
57

SOME PROBLEMS INVOLVING ELASTIC RESPONSE

58

Equations of linear elasticity, mechanical theory
Body wave solutions
Linear elastic beam
Finite-element stiffness procedure

58
59
60
62

Some elementary two-dimensional solutions

64
88

Plane strain and plane stress
Equations in polar coordinates
Holes and stress concentrations
Inclusions
Crack as limit of elliptical hole
Crack tip fields
Torsion.
Membrane analogy for torsion

64
65
66
69
70
70
74
77

Equations of finite deformation

77

Small deformation from an initially stressed state
Initially stressed beam
Free vibrations
Buckling

79
80
81
81

BIBLIOGRAPHY ON SOLID MECHANICS

83

Appendix: Comments on notation used here, versus that often used in elementary
texts and other sources

86

Note on relation to other works by the author

86

89

